---
application_number: 32168
plant_name: Gilroy , CA 9 5020
plant_address: 8860 Muraoka Drive
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2025/2025-32168-Gilroy_CA_9_5020__fid17130_nsr_32152_eval_073025_pdf__application_32168__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 32168)
**Plant**:  Gilroy , CA 9 5020
**Address**: 8860 Muraoka Drive

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
nd  
A Memorial Services (applicant)  has applied  for Authorit ies to Construct and Permit s to Operate 
for the following equipment : 
 
S-5    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32 -5S, 4.5 MMbtu/hr  
natural gas, maximum  
S-6    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32, 3.5 MMbtu/hr  
natural gas, maximum  
      
A Memorial Services is a business providing pet cremation services in Gilroy. They currently 
have one permitted animal crematory retort. This application is to replace the existing  permitted  
animal crematory retort (S-1) with 2 new crematory retorts  that will also be  fired  on natural gas .  
 
Since the initial application submittal, the applicant has revised the proposed project and has 
agreed to a throughput limit of 725,166 pounds  of bodies  per year  and 250 pounds per hour at S-5 
and 448,980 pounds per year  and 250 pounds per hour  at S-6.  These limits are necessary to 
comply with health risk limits in Regulation 2- 5.   
 
Also, the applicant has  proposed to avoid Best Available Control Technology requirements by 
accepting a voluntary limit on each crematory retort of 56,500 standard cubic feet of natural gas  
(57.6 MMBtu)  usage  per day and 2,400 lbs per day of cremations . This is a voluntary limit, which 
if exceeded would trigger Best Available Control Technology review . 
 Both crematories could operate for  24 hours a day, 7 days a week. S -5 is a slightly larger unit and 
has a maximum firing rate of 4.5 MMBtu/h our, and S -6 has a maximum firing rate of 3.5 
MMBtu/h our. 
 
The criteria pollutant emissions from S -5 and S -6 are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide 
(CO), precursor organic compounds (POC), sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and particulate matter (PM 10 and 
PM 2.5).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s web site at 
www.baaqmd.gov.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 2

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

2 Emissions
ons   
 
 
Table 1a. Criteria Pollutant Emissions  per Source  
at S-5 and S- 6 from Combustion of Fuel  
Pollutant  Emission Factor 
(lb/MMft3) Maximum Daily 
Emissions (lb/day)  Annual Emissions  
(tons/yr) 
PM10  7.6 0.43 0.08 
PM2.5  7.6 0.43 0.08 
NOx  100 5.65 1.03 
CO 84 4.74 0.87 
SO2 0.6 0.03 0.01 
POC  5.5 0.31 0.06 
Notes:  
-Daily emissions b ased on a fuel consumption limit of 56,500 cubic feet per day.  
-Annual emissions based on permitted usage of 365 days per year.  
-Emissions factors based on EPA’s AP -42 Compilation of Emission Factors from Stationary 
Sources, Chapter 1.4 (Tables 1.4- 1 and 1.4- 2), dated July 1998.  
-Assumes all PM10 can also be emitted as PM2.5.  
 
 
Table 1b. Maximum Criteria Pollutant Emissions at S -5 
From Cremation  
Pollutant  Emission Factor 
(lb/ton)  Maximum DailyEmissions (lb/day)  Annual Emissions
(tons/yr)  
PM10  0.09 1.36 0.21 
PM2.5  0.09 1.36 0.21 
NOx  0.27 4.27 0.65 
CO 0.22 3.54 0.53 
SO2 0.16 2.61 0.39 
POC  0.02 0.36 0.05 
Notes:  
-Daily emissions based on maximum cremations  of 2,400 pounds of bodies  per day. 
-Annual emissions based on an annual  throughput limit of 725,166 pounds of bodies per year.  
-Emissions factors based on EPA’s AP -42, 42 Compilation of Emission Factors from Stationary 
Sources, Chapter 2.3 (Table 2.3- 1), dated  July 1993.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 3  
 
 3 Table 1c. Maximum Criteria Pollutant Emissions at S -6 
From Cremation  
Pollutant  Emission Factor 
(lb/ton)  Maximum DailyEmissions (lb/day)  Annual Emissions
(tons/yr)  
PM10  0.09 1.36 0.13 
PM2.5  0.09 1.36 0.13 
NOx  0.27 4.27 0.40 
CO 0.22 3.54 0.33 
SO2 0.16 2.61 0.24 
POC  0.02 0.36 0.03 
Notes:  
-Daily emissions based on maximum cremations  of 2,400 pounds  of bodies per day.  
-Annual emissions based on an annual throughput limit of 448 ,980 pounds of bodies per year.  
-Emissions factors based on EPA’s AP -42, Compilation of Emission Factors from Stationary 
Sources, Chapter 2.3 (Table 2.3- 1), dated  July 1993  
 
Table 1 d. Total Daily Project  Criteria Pollutant Emissions  
Source  PM10  PM2.5  NOx  CO SO2 POC  
 lbs/day  lbs/day  lbs/day  lbs/day  lbs/day  lbs/day  
S-5 1.79 1.79 9.92 8.28 2.64 0.67 
S-6 1.79 1.79 9.92 8.28 2.64 0.67 
Combined  3.58 3.58 19.84  16.56  5.28 1.34Emissions  Application
Emissions  Post-Project 
Facility  
Emissions  Offset  
Requirement  Offsets  
Required  
NOx  1.60 7.33 7.33 >10 N 
POC  0.09 0.52 0.52 >10 N 
CO 1.34 6.11 6.11 - N 
PM 10 0.14 1.50 1.50  ≥100 N 
PM 2.5 0.14 1.50 1.50 ≥100 N 
SO 2 0.07 2.40 2.40  ≥100 NEmissions  Acute
Trigger  Annual  
Emissions  Chronic 
Trigger  Risk 
Screen  
(lb/body)  (lb/hr)  (lb/hr)  (lb/yr)  (lb/yr)  (yes/no)  
Acetaldehyde  1.30E -04 4.33E -04 2.10E -01 1.02E+00  2.90E+00  no 
Arsenic  1.50E -05 5.00E -05 8.80E -05 1.17E -01 1.60E -03 yes 
Beryllium  1.37E -06   None  1.07E -02 3.40E -02 no 
Cadmium  1.11E -05   None  8.69E -02 1.90E -02 yes 
Chromium, hx  1.35E -05   None  1.06E -01 5.10E -04 yes 
Cobalt  8.75E -07   None  6.85E -03 1.10E -02 yes 
Copper  2.74E -05 9.13E -05 4.40E -02   None  no 
Formaldehyde  8.14E -06 2.71E -05 2.40E -02 6.37E -02 1.40E+01  no 
Hydrogen chloride  7.20E -02 2.40E -01 9.30E -01 5.64E+02  3.50E+02  yes 
Hydrogen fluoride  6.55E -04 2.18E -03 1.10E -01 5.13E+00  5.70E+01  no 
Lead  6.62E -05   None  5.18E -01 2.90E -01 yes 
Naphthalene  8.34E -06   None  6.53E -02 2.40E+00  no 
Nickel  3.82E -05 1.27E -04 8.80E -05 2.99E -01 3.10E -01 yes 
Selenium  4.36E -05   None  3.41E -01 8.00E+00  no 
Vanadium  5.79E -05 1.93E -04 1.30E -02   None  no 
Chlorinated 
dibenzodioxins 
and furans  1.10E -09   None  8.61E -06 4.40E -08 yes 
PAH 
(benzo(a)pyrene 
equivalents)  2.40E -08   None  1.88E -04 3.30E -03 no 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 7  
 
 7 Note: Except for mercury, formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, pollutant emission factors are from 
EPA’s FIRE database  (https://cfpub.epa.gov/webfire/ ) for crematoriums (SCC = 31502101) . 
Maximum per hour is based on a combined  hourly throughput of 500 lbs/hr (250lbs/hr for each 
retort). Maximum per year is based on total combined throughput of 1 ,174,146 lbs/yr.  
 
 
Regulation 6, Rule 1: Particulate Matter – General Requirements  
This operation and this  facility are  expected to comply with Regulation 6- 1-301 Ringelmann No. 
1 Limitation,  6-1-302 Opacity Limitation, 6- 1-303 Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation, 6-1-305 Visible 
Particles, and 6- 1-310 Total Suspended Particulate Concentration Limits . The operation of S -5 
and S -6 within the proposed permit conditions is not expected to violate the above regulations  
since the permit conditions are intended to ensure complete combustion.  
 The Air District’s Compliance and Enforcement staff will verify compliance with Regulation 6 -1 
standards during their routine inspections.

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

Cumulative Increase
ease  
 
The District tracks cumulative emission increases from new and modified source permits issued 
to facilities. As a part of this project , A Memorial Services will be  shutting down their existing 
crematory retort S -1. The cumulative increase for this project  was calculated by subtracting 
contemporaneous emissions reduction credits from the shutdown of S -1 to the new  potential 
emissions from S -5 and S -6. Contemporaneous e missions reductions are based on the annual 
average usage of S-1 over the past 3 years. S -1 had an average usage of 13.5 MMBTU of natural 
gas per day and 45,483 pounds of material cremated per year. Table 2 below shows the existing 
cumulative increase for the facility, net project emissions, and post- project cumulative increase.  
 
Table 2.  Plant 17130 Cumulative Increase  
Source  PM10  PM2.5  NOx  CO SO2 POC  
 tons/yr  tons/yr  tons/yr  tons/yr  tons/yr  tons/yr  
Existing Cumulative Increase  0.14 0.14 1.6 1.34 0.07 0.09 
S-1 Reduction  -0.03 -0.03 -0.28 -0.23 -0.02 -0.01 
S-5 Potential Emissions  0.29 0.29 1.68 1.40 0.40 0.11 
S-6 Potential Emissions  0.21 0.21 1.43 1.20 0.25 0.09 
Net Project Emissions  0.47 0.47 2.83 2.37 0.63 0.19 
Post-Project Cumulative 
Increase  0.61  0.61  4.43  3.71  0.70  0.28  
 
 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 4Cumulative Increase; TBACT)
8. The owner/operator shall use the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s to cremate animal remains with

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

an increase in toxic air contaminant or hazardous air contaminant emission s at facilities within
1,000 feet of the boundary of a K -12 school or an overburdened community.  The Applicant has 
reported there is no  K-12 school within that radius of this facility, and the Air District’s database 
confirms that there is no K -12 school within one mile from the facility. The website 
www.greatschools.org also confirms there is no K -12 school within one mile from the facility. 
However, since this project is within an overburdened community as defined by Regulation        
2-1-243, a public notice is required. The public notice fee has been paid, and the public notice 
will be distributed to all residents and facilities within 1,000 feet of the sources. The District will 
respond to all public comments received prior to taking final action on this application.   
 Regulation 2, Rule 2, Section 301, Best Available Control Technology (BACT)  
In accordance with Regulation 2- 2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified source with 
the potential to emit 10 .0 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, NOx, CO, SO 2, PM 10 
or PM 2.5. The applicant has accepted voluntary permit conditions that limit the maximum daily 
usage of each source, which limit  maximum daily emissions from S -5 and S -6 to less than 10.0 
pounds per day for each pollutant  per source, as shown in Table 1d. The permit conditions limit 
daily natural gas usage to 56,500 standard cubic feet of natural gas and 2,400 pounds of material cremated per source, and additional record keeping will be required to show compliance with 
these BACT avoidance limits. Based on these limits , BACT is not triggered for S -5 and S -6. 
 
Regulation 2, Rule 2, Section 303, Offsets  
Per Regulation 2, Rule 2, Section 302, emission offsets must be provided for any new or modified source at a facility that will have the potential to emit more than 10 tons per year of NOx or POC. 
Per Regulation 2, Rule 2, Section 303, emission offsets mus t be provided for any new or modified 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173 
Page | 5  
 5 source at a facility that will have the potential to emit more than 100 tons per year or more of 
PM2.5, PM10, or sulfur dioxide.  For the post -project facility PTE, the required shutdown of S-1 
will remove all potential for emissions from that source. Therefore, the post-project potential emissions are exclusively from S -5 and   S-6. Additionally, the potential emissions from S -5 and 
S-6 summarized below have been  based on maximum equipment capacities: maximum 
throughputs of 4.5 MMBTU/hr and 250 pounds per hour at S-5 and 3.5MMBTU/hr and 250 pounds per hour at S-6. Since the criteria  emissions from this application do not cause the facility 
to exceed any of the triggers, offsets are not required for this application. 
 
Table 3. Facility 4173 Potential to Emit (tons per year)  
Pollutant  ExistingRegulation 2, Rule 5, New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants
The District’s regulation concerning toxic air contaminant emissions is codified in Regulation 2, Rule 5, New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants (TAC).  All TAC emissions from new 
and modified sources as defined in Section 2-5- 214 are subject to risk assessment, if the 
emissions of any individual TAC exceed either the acute or chronic emission thresholds defined 
in Table 2 -5-1.   
 The toxic emissions calculations are based on the emission factors from the District Permit 
Handbook, which are taken from the most current version of the WebFIRE database. A health 
risk assessment  (HRA) was required because the calculated emissions of arsenic, cadmium, 
hexavalent chromium, cobalt, hydrogen chloride, lead, nickel, and chlorinated dibenzodioxins and furans exceeded either the chronic or acute trigger levels in Regulation 2 -5. 
 
The initial HRA had been run based on a combined annual throughput limit of 2,292,000 pounds 
of material processing , a maximum hourly throughput of 250 pounds per hour at each retort  and a 
stack height of 26 feet. The HRA assumed that a maximum of  75% of the total annual throughput 
limit  could be processed at either S -5 or S -6, and so the HRA was run with two scenarios: the first 
being the maximum usage of S -5 and the remainder being processed at S- 6 (75% at S -5 and 25% 
at S-6), the second being the maximum  usage of S-6 (25% at S-5 and 75% at S- 6). The resulting 
acute hazard index was within acceptable limits, but the cancer risk and chronic hazard index 
were not. As a result , the applicant revised their proposal to includ e a stack height of 33 feet for 
both cremators to determine if  the stack height would allow the project to meet Regulation 2 -5 
health risk limits . The resulting cancer risk and chronic hazard index from the revised HRA were 
10.4 in a million and 1.3, respectively, which still did not comply with Regulation 2-5. 
 
The third and final HRA was performed using a stack height of 33 feet above ground level for 
each retort, a maximum hourly throughput of 250 pounds per hour at each retort, and a maximum 
combined annual throughput of 1,174,146 pounds of material per year (725,166 pounds at S-5 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 6  
 
 6 and 448,980 pounds at S -6). The HRA showed an incremental cancer risk increase of 5.9 in a 
million, a chronic hazard index of 0.56, and an acute hazard index of 0.048. Additionally, the 
District expects that the operation of either S -5 or S -6 in conjunction with the operation of S -1 
would not result in an exceedance of the HRA limits. This is based on the hourly and annual throughputs of S -1 (130 pounds per hour and 110,000 pounds per year) being significantly lower 
than the throughputs of either S -5 or S -6. Therefore, the operation of S -1 before both S -5 and S -6 
have been started up would not be a violation of Regulation 2- 5.In accordance with the District’s Regulation 2 -5-301, source s must meet  BACT for Toxics
(TBACT) if  the estimated source health risk exceeds a cancer risk of 1.0 in a million and/or a 
chronic HI of 0.20. For crematories, TBACT is a secondary combustion chamber to ensure 
complete combustion, as well as a minimum combustion temperature of 1,650 degrees 
Fahrenheit. Both S -5 and S -6 trigger TBACT and  are equipped with secondary chambers.  Permit 
conditions will  be included to require  compliance with the minimum combustion temperature.  
These sources are expected to  comply with these TBACT requirements.  
 
Since the estimated project cancer risk from the revised project does not exceed 6.0 in a million, 
and project chronic HI does not exceed 1.0, the  revised project subject to the limitations in the 
third HRA complies with the District’s Regulation 2 -5-302 project risk requirements for projects  
located in an Overburdened Community as defined in Regulation 2- 1-243.Table 4. Toxic Air Contaminants
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor  Maximum 
Hour lyor without enclosure in associated containers. No other material contaminated with toxic
air contaminants as listed by Air Resources Board, including radioactive and 
biohazardous waste,  shall be incinerated in th ese cremator s without prior approval of the 
District. (basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2- 5) 
 
9. The District may require the owner/operator of the cremator s to conduct a District 
approved source test to determine particulate matter, hydrocarbon, NOx, CO, O2, HCl, 
and toxic emissions under unusual conditions, such as obese case, disaster bags. The 
Source Test Section of the District shall be contacted to obtain approval for the source 
test method. The Source Test Section shall be notified at least 7 days in advance of any 
expected source test. A copy of  the source test report for each test shall be provided to the 
District within 30 days of source test date. (basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2 -5) 
 
10. The owner/operator shall have the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s equipped with sampling ports 
and platforms, the location of which shall have the approval of the Source Test Section of the District. (Basis: Regulation 6 -1-310) 
 
11. The owner/operator shall have an operator present at all times during cremations. (Basis: 
Regulation 6- 1-301) 
 
12. The owner/operator shall maintain  the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s in good working condition. 
The date and detailed description of the type of maintenance performed  on the cremator s 
shall be recorded in a District approved logbook  and retained for at least two  years. 
(basis: Regulation 6 -1-301, 6- 1-310) 
 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 9  
 
 9 
13. The owner/operator shall notify the District within 72 hours of starting up either S -5 
and/or S -6. Additionally, the owner/operator may not operate both S -5 and S -6 until S -1 
has been completely shut down. The owner/operator shall notify the District withi n 72 
hours of shutting down S -1, and the District may require an inspection for confirmation 
(basis: Cumulative Increase)  
 
14. The owner/operator may continue to operate S -1 until both S -5 and S -6 have been started 
up. If only one of S -5 and S -6 has been started up , S-1 may continue to operate as 
permitted under Permit Condition #22472: maximum processing rates of 130 pounds per 
hour, 1950 pounds per day, 110,000 pounds per year, and a maximum firing rate of 2 
MMBTU per hour (basis: Cumulative Increase)  
 
Existing Condition # 22472 for  S-1 will be removed when S -1 is removed from service.  
 
End of Conditions

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

(empty)

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

(empty)

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

(empty)

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

(empty)

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
4 Statement of Compliance
nce  
 
Regulation 1, "General Provisions and Definitions"  
The facility is subject to Regulation 1, Section 301, which prohibits discharge of air contaminants resulting in public nuisance. A high minimum firing temperature of 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit is 
being required by permit condition; this is expected to ensure complete combustion. Compliance 
with this permit condition is expected to prevent public nuisance.  However, i f any complaints are 
received due to the implementation of this project, the facility inspector will investigate and issue 
a violation notice if  warranted .  Any public nuisance violation would require the operator to 
submit a new permit application to further abate emissions.   
 
Regulation 2, Rule 1, California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)  
District Regulation 2, Rule 1, Section 310 specifies that all proposed new and modified sources subject to District permit requirements must be reviewed in accordance with CEQA requirements 
except for ministerial projects  that follow the BAAQMD Permit Handbook  or projects exempt 
from CEQA under Section 2- 1-312. Although this project required an HRA and therefore does 
not qualify as a  ministerial  permit action , the analysis of this project complies with the review 
standards in the BAAQMD Permit Handbook.  T his project qualifies for a categorical exemption 
under Section 2- 1-312 for being a negligible expansion of use. The emissions shown in Table 2 
are well below the Thresholds of Significance shown in Table 3 -1 in Chapter 3 of  the 
BAAQMD’s  2022 CEQA Guidelines . Since this project will emit less than these thresholds of 
significance, the project is categorically exempt and a CEQA review is not required.

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

Regulation 2, Rule 1, Public Notification (Regulation 2- 1-412)
The public notification requirements of Regulation 2- 1-412 apply to modifications which result inrequirements of District Regulation 2 -1-412.  After the comments are received and
reviewed, the District will make a final determination on the permit.  
 I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received prior to taking any final action on the issuance of Authorit ies to Construct for the 
following sources:  
 
S-5    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32 -5S, 4.5 MMbtu/hr  
natural gas, maximum  
 
S-6    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32, 3.5 MMbtu/hr  
natural gas, maximum  
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________________________   7/7/2025   
Signature        Date  
Prepared by:  Lucas Griswold, Air Quality Engineer

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
s  
     
Condition Number 100710 for : 
 
S-5    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32 -5S, 4.5 MMbtu/hr  natural 
gas, maximum  
S-6    Natural Gas Fired Animal Crematory Retort – Matthews IEB 32, 3.5 MMbtu/hr  natural gas, 
maximum  
  
1. The owner/operator shall not exceed an annual firing rate of  39,420 MMBTU of natural 
gas at S-5 and 30,660 MMBTU of natural gas at  S-6 in any consecutive twelve -month 
period. (basis: Cumulative Increase)  
 
2. The owner/operator shall not cremate more than 725,166 pounds of animal remains  at S-5 
and shall not cremate more than 448,980 pounds of animal remains at S -6 in any 
consecutive twelve -month period. Additionally, to comply with the health risk limits in 
Regulation 2, Rule 5, the owner/operator shall limit cremations at each cremator S -5 and 
S-6 to no more than 250 pounds  per hour  of animal remain s. (basis: Cumulative Increase; 
Regulation 2- 5) 
 
3. The owner/operator shall ensure no more than 56,500 cubic feet of natural gas and 2,400 
pounds of animal remains are combusted in a ny calendar day at  each cremator S -5 and  
S-6 to avoid triggering B est A vailable C ontrol T echnology for NOx emissions. If either 
of these limits are exceeded, the owner/operator shall submit a permit application within 
30 days of the exceedance , requesting modification of the source permits, including 
evaluation of BACT  control requirements.  (Basis: BACT  avoidance ) 
 
4. To show compliance with part s 1, 2, and 3, the owner/operator shall maintain a District 
approved log of daily natural gas usage and daily material throughput at S -5 and S -6. 
Each month, the owner/operator shall calculate and summarize the total monthly and 
most recent 12 -month natural gas usage and material throughput. These records shall be 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 8  
 
 8 made available to District staff upon request and shall be maintained onsite for at least 3 
years.  
 
5. The owner/operator shall maintain the operating temperature in the secondary chamber of 
the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s at or above 1650 degree s Fahrenheit during the cremation 
mode. Any temperature excursion below 1600 degree s Fahrenheit during the cremation 
mode will be considered a violation of this permit condition. The owner/operator shall equip each cremator with a District approved continuous temperature monitor ing and 
recording device to ensure compliance with this condition. The location of the 
thermocouple for each source shall be approved by the Source Test Section of the 
District. Natural gas input to the secondary chamber burner shall be increased, if 
necessary, to increase temperature sufficiently to control odor and visible plumes . 
Additionally, the stack height of each cremator shall be at least 33 feet above ground level (Basis: Regulation 6 -1-301, 6- 1-310; TBACT , Regulation 2- 5) 
 
6. For each cremator S -5 and S -6: The owner/operator shall not cremate until the Cremator 
has been preheated so that the temperature in the secondary chamber is at least 1650 
degree s Fahrenheit. (Basis: Regulation 6- 1-301, 6- 1-310; TBACT)  
 
7. The owner/operator shall fire the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s with natural gas only. (basis:

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

Condition number: 100710
- Item 1
The owner/operator shall not exceed an annual firing rate of  39,420 MMBTU of natural 
gas at S-5 and 30,660 MMBTU of natural gas at  S-6 in any consecutive twelve -month 
period. (
Basis: Cumulative Increase)

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall not cremate more than 725,166 pounds of animal remains  at S-5 
and shall not cremate more than 448,980 pounds of animal remains at S -6 in any 
consecutive twelve -month period. Additionally, to comply with the health risk limits in 
Regulation 2, Rule 5, the owner/operator shall limit cremations at each cremator S -5 and 
S-6 to no more than 250 pounds  per hour  of animal remain s. (
Basis: Cumulative Increase, Regulation 2- 5)

- Item 3
The owner/operator shall ensure no more than 56,500 cubic feet of natural gas and 2,400 
pounds of animal remains are combusted in a ny calendar day at  each cremator S -5 and  
S-6 to avoid triggering B est A vailable C ontrol T echnology for NOx emissions. If either 
of these limits are exceeded, the owner/operator shall submit a permit application within 
30 days of the exceedance , requesting modification of the source permits, including 
evaluation of BACT  control requirements.  (
Basis: BACT  avoidance )

- Item 4
To show compliance with part s 1, 2, and 3, the owner/operator shall maintain a District 
approved log of daily natural gas usage and daily material throughput at S -5 and S -6. 
Each month, the owner/operator shall calculate and summarize the total monthly and 
most recent 12 -month natural gas usage and material throughput. These records shall be 
Application #32168 
Facility # 4173  
Page | 8  
 
 8 made available to District staff upon request and shall be maintained onsite for at least 3 
years.

- Item 5
The owner/operator shall maintain the operating temperature in the secondary chamber of 
the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s at or above 1650 degree s Fahrenheit during the cremation 
mode. Any temperature excursion below 1600 degree s Fahrenheit during the cremation 
mode will be considered a violation of this permit condition. The owner/operator shall equip each cremator with a District approved continuous temperature monitor ing and 
recording device to ensure compliance with this condition. The location of the 
thermocouple for each source shall be approved by the Source Test Section of the 
District. Natural gas input to the secondary chamber burner shall be increased, if 
necessary, to increase temperature sufficiently to control odor and visible plumes . 
Additionally, the stack height of each cremator shall be at least 33 feet above ground level (
Basis: Regulation 6 -1-301, 6- 1-310, TBACT, Regulation 2- 5)

- Item 6
For each cremator S -5 and S -6: The owner/operator shall not cremate until the Cremator 
has been preheated so that the temperature in the secondary chamber is at least 1650 
degree s Fahrenheit. (
Basis: Regulation 6- 1-301, 6- 1-310, TBACT)

- Item 7
The owner/operator shall fire the S -5 and S -6 Cremator s with natural gas only. (

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

Recommendation
on  
 
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the 
proposed project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to comply with all applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related 
regulations.  T he preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for 
the equipment listed below. However, the proposed source s will be located within an 
Overburdened Community as defined in District Regulation 2- 1-243 and an HRA was 
performed as required in District Regulation 2- 5, which triggers the public notification
