---
application_number: 31524
plant_name: 921 Howard
plant_address: San Francisco, CA 94103
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2022/2022-31524-921_Howard__e5137_nsr_31524_eval_081022_pdf__application_31524__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 31524)
**Plant**:  921 Howard
**Address**: San Francisco, CA 94103

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
ound  
 
921 Howard  is applying for an Authority to Construct/Permit to Operate for the following 
equipment : 
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Generator Set  
Make:  MTU America Inc. , Model: 10V1600G80S ,   
Year: 2021, 752 bhp, 4.53 MMBtu/hr, abated by A -1 
Permit Condition No s. 22850 and 24354  
 
A1       Diesel Particulate Filter : Johnson Mat they CRT(+) 3 -N-CS-BISO -10/10- LP 
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and particulate 
matter (PM 10).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s web site at 
www.baaqmd.gov . 
 
S-1 meets  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board 
(EPA/CARB) T ier 2 Off-road standard.  The engine will burn commercially available 
California low sulfur diesel fuel.  The sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not exceed 
0.0015% by weight. S -1 PM emissions will be abated by a Diesel Particulate Filter  with an 
85% of efficiency by weight  according to the Executive Order DE -08-009-11. 
 
This evaluation report will discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable 
rules and regulations.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

Emissions
ns  
 
Table 1. Annual and Daily Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data from S -1  
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor 
(g/BHP -hr) Abated 
Emission 
Factor 
(g/BHP -hr) Maximum 
Daily 
Emissions 
(lb/day)  Emission 
(lb/yr)  Emission 
(TPY)  
NOx  4.06 -- 161.40  336.55  0.168  
POC  0.15 -- 5.96 12.43  0.006  
CO  0.82 -- 32.60  67.97  0.034  
1PM 10/2.5 0.11 0.0165  0.66 1.37 0.001  
2SO2 N/A2 N/A 0.22 0.45 0.000  
 
 2 Basis :   
 Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours  for S -1  
 Max daily emissions: 24- hour operation  
 Emissions are from EPA Engine Family MMDDL21.0ZWR  for S -1. 
 PM emissions are abated by A -1 Diesel Particulate Filter  with an efficiency of 8 5% 
by weight. 
 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5 
 2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4- 1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 0.00809*0.0015 lb 
SO 2/bhp-hrEmissions Post
4/5/91 (tons/yr)  Applicati on 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  Cumulative 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  0.000  0.168  0.168  
POC  0.000  0.006  0.006  
CO 0.000  0.034  0.034  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.001  0.001  
SO 2 0.000  0.000  0.000Emissions*
(TPY)  Facility  
Annual  
Emissions  
(TPY) *  Offset  
Requirement  
(TPY)  Offset  
Required  
NOx  0.000  0.505  0.505  >10 N 
POC  0.000  0.019  0.019  >10 N 
CO 0.000  0.102  0.102  - N 
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.000  0.002  0.002   ≥100 N 
SO 2 0.000  0.001  0.001   ≥100 N 
*Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity of 50 hours and emergency operation of 100 hours 
for S-1. 
 
Since the facility’s potential to emit is below the offsets trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2- 2, offsets are not required.

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

Plant Cumulative Increase
se 
 
Table 2 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.    
Table 2. Plant Cumulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91 
Pollutant  Existing

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HR A)
A) 
 
All PM 10 emissions are considered diesel particulate emissions. The PM 10 emissions from 
this application are summarized in Table 1. There are no  related project permitted in the 
last three years.  Since the diesel particulate emissions from the project are greater  than the 
toxic trigger level of 0.26 lb/year, an HRA is required.  The source is within 100 ft from 
receptors, therefore it cannot be streamlined.  
 
HRA Results  
This analysis estimates the incremental health risk resulting from toxic air contaminant 
(TAC) emissions from non- emergency operation of standby generator diesel engines at this 
facility.  Results from this HRA indicate that the project cancer risk is estimated at 0.47 in 
a million, and the project chronic hazard index is estimated at 0.00013.Available Control Technology for Toxic Air Contaminants ( TBACT ) because the
estimated source cancer risk was  less than 1.0 in a million at a 50 hr/yr  reliability 
operational limit. BACT and TBACT determinations for compression ignition engines 
with a rated capacity greater than 1 ,000 bhp are described in BAAQMD BACT/TBACT 
Workbook for IC Engines – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -
 
 3 Agricul tural, non- direct drive fire pump, Document #96.1.5, Revision 0. dated 12/22/2020 
(see Attachment 1).  
 
Project Risk Limits  
Since S -1 operating at 50  hours/year, are not subject to TBACT, and the estimated project 
cancer risk does not exceed 10 in a million and the chronic and acute hazard indices do not 
exceed 1.0, this project complies with the District’s Regulation 2- 5-302 project risk 
requirements.Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regul ations

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
T)  
 
In accordance with Regulation 2- 2-301, BACT is triggered for a ny new or modified source 
with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, NOx, CO, 
SO2, or PM10.  
 
BACT for S -1 is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook for IC 
Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non- Agricultural, non- direct drive 
fire pump  50 BHP and < 1000 BHP Output , Document #96.1.3, Revision 8, dated 
12/22/2020. For NOx, CO, POC and PM10, BACT( 2) is the CARB ATCM standard for 
the respective pollutant at the applicable horsepower rating.  
 
For SO2, BACT(2) is using fuel with sulfur content not to exceed 0.0015%, or 15 ppm. 
The more restrictive BACT(1) standards are not applicable to this engine because it will 
be limited to operation as an emergency standby engine.  
 
S-1 satisfies  the current BACT(2) standards for the following pollutants which exceed 10 
lb/day in Table 1:  
 
S-1  Pollutant   Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
  NOx *   4.06 g/bhp- hr  4.56 g/bhp- hr 
                        CO    0.85 g/bhp- hr  2.60 g/bhp- hr   
 
* The standard is expressed as 4.8  g/bhp of NMHC+NOx.  NOx is estimated to be 95% of the combined 
standard ( 4.8*0.95 = 4.56 g/bhp- hr)

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

Offsets
ets  
 
Offset must be provided for any new or modified source at a facility that will have the 
potential to emit more than 10 tons per year of NOx or POC, as specified in Regulation 2-
2-302; 100 tons per year or more of PM2.5, PM10 or sulfur dioxide, as specified in 
Regulation 2- 2- 303. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 Table 3. Potential to Emit for FID 25137 
Pollutant  Existing  
Annual  
Emissions  
(TPY)  Application  
Annual

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
D)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2- 2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project is ministerial under the District Regulation 2 -1-311 (Permit Handbook 
Chapter 2.3)  and is therefore not subject to CEQA review.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart IIII ( Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines ) 
 
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ ( Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE))

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
 
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6- 1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation)  
Regulation 9- 1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9- 8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption f or emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Recordkeepingcompliance with District, State or Federal
Federal  
        emission limits is not limited.  
        [Basis: Title 17, California Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary  
        CI Engines]                                              
 
     3. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency  
        standby engine only when a non- resettable  
        totalizing meter (with a minimum display  
        capability of 9,999 hours) that measures the  
        hours of operation for the engine is installed,  
        operated and properly maintained.  
        [Basis: Title 17, California Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary  
        CI Engines]                                              
 
     4. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the  
        following monthly records in a District-  
        approved log for at least 36 months from the  
        date of entry (60 months if the facility has  
        been issued a Title V Major Facility Review  
        Permit or a Synthetic Minor Operating Permit).  
        Log entries shall be retained on- site, either  
        at a central location or at the engine's  
        location, and made immediately available to the  
        District staff upon request.  
 
 6         a. Hours of operation for reliability- related 
           activities (maintenance and testing).  
        b. Hours of operation for emission testing to  
           show compliance with emission limits.  
        c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
        d. For each emergency, the nature of the  
           emergency condition.  
        e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
        [Basis: Title 17, California Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary  
        CI Engines]                                              
 
     5. At School and Near- School Operation:  
        If the emergency standby engine is located on  
        school grounds or within 500 feet of any school  
        grounds, the following requirements shall  
        apply:                                                   
 
        The owner/operator shall not operate each  
        stationary emergency standby diesel- fueled 
        engine for non -emergency use, including  
        maintenance and testing, during the following  
        periods:  
        a. Whenever there is a school sponsored  
           activity (if the engine is located on school  
           grounds)  
        b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when  
           school is in session.                                 
 
        "School" or "School Grounds" means any public  
        or private school used for the purposes of the  
        education of more than 12 children in 
        kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, 
        inclusive, but does not include any private  
        school in which education is primarily 
        conducted in a private home(s). "School" or  
        "School Grounds" includes any building or  
        structure, athletic field, or other areas of  
        school property but does not include unimproved  
        school property. 
        [Basis: Title 17, California Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines] 
 
Permit Condition # 24354  for S -1 
 
1. The owner/operator shall abate the particulate emissions  
         from the emergency diesel engine with a Diesel  
         Particulate Filter at all times the engine is in  
         operation.  
        [Basis: "ATCM for Stationary Compression Ignition  
        Engines" Section 93115.6(a)(3) or 93115.6(b)(3), title  
        17, CA Code of Regulations]                              
 
     2.  The owner/operator shall install and maintain a  
 
 7          backpressure monitor that notifies the owner or operator  
         when the high backpressure limit of the engine is  
         approached. The owner/operator shall maintain records of  
         any corrective action taken after the backpressure  
         monitor has notified the owner or operator that the high  
         backpressure limit of the engine is approached in a  
         District- approved log for at least 36 months from the  
         date of entry (60 months if the facility has been issued  
         a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic  
         Minor Operating Permit).  
        [Basis: "ATCM for Stationary Compression Ignition  
        Engines" Section 93115.10(e), title 17, CA Code of  
        Regulations; 40 CFR 60.4214c]  
 
 
 
End of Conditions

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

5 School Notification (Regulation 2- 1-412)
) 
 
This project is  within  1,000 feet from the  K-12 school s below:  
-Proof School, 973 Mission St, San Francisco, CA 94103 
-Bessie Carmichael School, 824 Harris on Street, San Francisco, CA 94107  
 therefore is  subject to the public notification requirements.of District Regulation 2 -1-412.  After the comments are received and reviewed, the District
will make a final determination on the permit.  
 
I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final action on issuance of an Authority to Construct/Permit to Operate 
for the following source:  
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Generator Set  
Make:  MTU America Inc. , Model: 10V1600G80S ,   
Year: 2021, 752 bhp, 4.53 MMBtu/hr, abated by A -1 
Permit Condition No s. 22850 and 24354  
 
A1       Diesel Particulate Filter: Johnson Matthey CRT(+) 3 -N-CS-BISO -10/10- LP 
 
Prepared by:  Isis Virrueta, AQE  
 
  
 
 8 Attachment 1  
 

 
 9

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
ns  
 
Permit Condition #22850  for S -1  
 
     1. The owner/operator shall not exceed 50 hours  
        per year per engine for reliability- related 
        testing.  
        [Basis: Title 17, Cali fornia Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary  
        CI Engines]                                              
 
     2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency  
        standby engine only for the following purposes:  
        to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission  
        testing to demonstrate compliance with a  
        District, State or Federal emission limit, or  
        for reliability- related activities (maintenance  
        and other testing, but excluding emission  
        testing). Operating while mitigating emergencyconditions or while emission testing to show
to show

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner/operator shall not exceed 50 hours  
        per year per engine for reliability- related 
        testing.  
        [
Basis: Title 17, Cali fornia Code of  
        Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary  
        CI Engines]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall operate each emergency  
        standby engine only for the following purposes:  
        to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission  
        testing to demonstrate compliance with a  
        District, State or Federal emission limit, or  
        for reliability- related activities (maintenance  
        and other testing, but excluding emission  
        testing). Operating while mitigating emergencyconditions or while emission testing to show
to show

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

Recommendation
dation  
 
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the proposed 
project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to comply 
with all applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related 
regulations.  The preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct/ Permit 
to Operate for the equipment listed below.  However, the proposed source will be located 
within 1,000 feet of at least one school, which triggers the public notification requirements
