---
application_number: 645509
plant_name: 303 Baldwin
plant_address: San Mateo , CA 94401
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2022/2022-645509-303_Baldwin__fid202412_nsr_645509_eval_042222_pdf__application_645509__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 645509)
**Plant**:  303 Baldwin
**Address**: San Mateo , CA 94401

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
nd  
 
303 Baldwin  is applying for an Authority to Construct  for the following equipment : 
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Generator Set  
Make: Caterpillar , Model: 2506C -E15TAG3 , Model Year: 2021  
762 bhp, 4.99 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon mo noxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and 
particulate matter (PM 10).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s 
web site at www.baaqmd.gov . 
 
S-1 meets  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board 
(EPA/CARB) Tier 2 Off-road standard.  The engine  will burn commercially available 
California low sulfur diesel fuel.  The sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not exceed 
0.0015% by weight.   
 
This evaluation report will discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable 
rules and regulation s.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

Emissions
ns  
 
Table 1. Annual and Daily Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data from S -1 
 
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
(lb/day)  Annual 
Emissions 
(lb/yr)  Annual 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  4.00 160.93  335.28  0.168  
POC  0.07 2.82 5.87 0.003  
CO 1.19 47.88  99.75  0.050  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.07 2.82 5.87 0.003  
SO 2 N/A2 0.22 0.46 0.000  
 
 
 
 
 
 2 Basis:   
➢ Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours  for S -1 
➢ Max daily emissions: 24 -hour operation  
➢ Emissions from EPA Engine Family MCPXL15.2NZS  for S-1 
➢ 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5  
➢ 2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4 -1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 
0.00809 *0.0015 lb SO 2/bhp-hr

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

Plant Cumulative Increase
ease  
 
Table 2 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.  
 
Table 2. Plant Cumulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91  
Pollutant  Existing Emissions 
Post 4/5/91 (tons/yr)  Application 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  Cumulative Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  0.000  0.168  0.168  
POC  0.000  0.003  0.003  
CO 0.000  0.050  0.050  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.003  0.003  
SO 2 0.000  0.000  0.000

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HR A)
R A) 
 
HRA was required. The diesel particulate emissions from the project are greater than  the 
toxic trigger level of 0.26  lb/year. All PM 10 emissions are considered diesel particulate 
emissions. The PM 10 emissions from this application are summarized in Table 1 . There 
were no other related projects permitted in the last three  years.  
 
 
HRA Results for S -1 operating at 50 hours per year  
Receptor  Cancer Risk  Chronic Non -Cancer Hazard Index  
Resident  3.5 in a million  0.00095  
Worker  1.2 in a million  0.00095  
Student (Episcopal 
Day School  of St. 
Mathew ) 0.052 in a million  0.000028  
 
The results from the health risk screening analysis indicate that the maximum proejct 
cancer risk  (resident) is estimated at 3.5 in a million, and the maximum project chronic 
hazard index is estimated at 0.00095.  
 
The HRA results deem the project is in compliance with project risk requirements as 
recommended, limiting reliability -related activity hours  by permit condition to 50 hours 
 
 3 per year. In accordance with the District’s Regulation 2, Rule 5, this risk level is 
considered acceptable, as it has been determined that the sources in this project meet the 
current TBACT standards. See HRA report.  
 
The p roject is in compliance with project risk requirements as recommended, limiting 
reliability -related activity ho urs by permit condition. See HR A report .Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regulations

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
T)  
 
In accordance with Regulation 2 -2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified 
source with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, 
NOx, CO, SO 2, or PM 10.  
 
BACT for this source is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook 
for IC Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -Agricultural, non -
direct drive fire pump, Document #96.1.3, R evision 8. dated 12/22/20 20. For NOx, CO, 
POC and PM 10, BACT(2) is the CARB ATCM standard for the respective pollutant at the 
applicable horsepower rating. For SO 2, BACT(2) is using fuel with sulfur content not to 
exceed 0.0015%, or 15 ppm. The more restri ctive BACT(1) standards are not applicable 
to this engine because it will be limited to operation as an emergency standby engine.  
 
S-1 satisfies the current BACT(2) standards for the following pollutants which exceed 10 
lb/day in Table  1: 
 
  Pollutant   Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
 
 4   NOx    4.00 g/bhp -hr  4.56 g/bhp -hr    
  CO   1.19 g/bhp -hr  2.60 g/bhp -hr

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

Offsets
ts  
 
Since the facility permitted levels are below the offset trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2 -2, offsets are not required.

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
D)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2 -2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project is ministerial under the District Regulation 2 -1-311 (Permit Handbook 
Chapter 2.3) and is therefore not subject to CEQA review.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart IIII ( Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines ) 
 
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ  (Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE) )

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
 
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6-1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation )  
Regulation 9 -1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9 -8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Recordkeeping

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

School Notification (Regulation 2 -1-412)
Because this equipment will be located within 1,000 feet of  Episcopal Day School of St. 
Matthew , the project is subject to the public notification requirements of Regulation 2 -1-
412 due to the increase in emissions from the project. A public notice has been prepared 
and will be sent to all addresses within 1,000 ft of the engine, and to parents and 
guardians of students attending Episcopal Day School of St. Matthew .2-1-412.  After the comments are received and reviewed, the District will make a final
determination on the permit.    
 
I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final action on issuance of an Authority to Construct/Permit to 
Operate to change permit conditions for the following source:   
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Generator Set  
Make: Caterpillar , Model: 2506C -E15TAG3 , Model Year: 2021  
762 bhp, 4.99 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
 
Prepared by:  Brittany McIntosh, Air Quality Permit Technician  
 
 7  

 
 8

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

5  
Permit Conditions
tions  
 
Permit Condition #100072 for S -1 
 
1. The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compli ance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non -
resettable totalizin g meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
3. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operat ing Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and testing ).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition.  
e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulatio ns, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
4. At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located on 
school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following requirements 
shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary emergency 
standby di esel-fueled engine for non -emergency use, including maintenance and 
testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is i n session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the purposes 
of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, 
 
 6 inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is pr imarily 
conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any building or 
structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but does not 
include unimproved school property.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Reg ulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
 Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities:  
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2 -5; Title 17, California Code of 
Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
 
End of Conditions

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compli ance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non -
resettable totalizin g meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]

- Item 3
Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operat ing Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and testing ).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition.  
e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulatio ns, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 4
At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located on 
school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following requirements 
shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary emergency 
standby di esel-fueled engine for non -emergency use, including maintenance and 
testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is i n session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the purposes 
of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, 
 
 6 inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is pr imarily 
conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any building or 
structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but does not 
include unimproved school property.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Reg ulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
 Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities:  
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase, Regulation 2 -5, Title 17, California Code of 
Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
 
End of Conditions

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

Recommendation
dation  
 
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the 
proposed project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to 
comply with all applicable requirements of District, State and federal air quality -related 
regulations.   The preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for 
the equipment listed below.   However, the prop osed source will be located within 1000 
feet of a school which triggers the public notification requirements of District Regulation
