---
application_number: 672133
plant_name: T-Mobile - BA60103S
plant_address: 1675 Grand Ave
evaluation_date: June  22, 2023
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2023/2023-672133-T_Mobile_BA60103S__fid202894_nsr_672133_eval_080423_pdf__application_672133__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 672133)
**Plant**:  T-Mobile - BA60103S
**Address**: 1675 Grand Ave
**Evaluation Date**: June  22, 2023

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
nd  
T-Mobile -  BA60103S  is applying for an Authority to Construct/Permit to Operate for the 
following equipment:  
 
S-1 Emergency Diesel  Generator Set  
Make: Mitsubishi , Model: D04EG -TAA, Model Year: 2022  
85 H orsepower, 0.55 MMBtu/h our  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and particulate 
matter (PM 10).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s web s ite at 
www.baaqmd.gov.  
 
S-1 meets  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board 
(EPA/CARB) Tier 3 Off- road standard. The engine will burn commercially available 
California low sulfur diesel fuel. T he sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not exceed 
0.0015% by weight.  
 
This evaluation report will discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable 
rules and regulations.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

Emissions
ns  
Table 1. Annual and Daily Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data from S -1 
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
(lbs./day)  Annual 
Emissions 
(lbs./year ) Annual 
Emissions 
(tons/ year ) 
NOx  2.57 11.5 24 0.012  
POC  0.08 0.4 1 0.000  
CO 0.45 2.0 4 0.002  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.10 0.4 1 0.000  
SO 2 N/A2 0.0 0 0.000  
Basis:   
 Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours for S -1 
 Max daily emissions: 24- hour operation  
 Emissions from EPA Engine Family NMVXL03.3CBB for S -1 
 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5 
 2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4- 1, SO 2 (15 parts per million ) 
= 0.00809*0.0015 pounds  SO 2/horsepower -hourEmissions*
(TPY)  Facility  
Annual  
Emissions  
(TPY) *  Offset  
Requirement  
(TPY)  Offset  
Required  
NOx  0 0.036  0.036  >10 N 
POC  0 0.001  0.001  >10 N 
CO 0 0.006  0.006  - N 
PM 10/PM 2.51 0 0.001  0.001   ≥100 N 
SO 2 0 0.000  0.000   ≥100 N 
*Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity of 50 hours and emergency operation of 100 hours 
for S -1. 
 
Since the facility’s potential to emit is below the offsets trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2- 2, offsets are not required.

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

2 Plant Cumulative Increase
ase  
Table 2 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.  
 
Table 2. Plant Cumulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91 
Pollutant  Existing Emissions 
Post 4/5/91 
(tons/ year ) Application 
Emissions 
(tons/ year ) Cumulative 
Emissions 
(tons/ year ) 
NOx  0.000  0.012  0.012  
POC  0.000  0.000  0.000  
CO 0.000  0.002  0.002  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.000  0.000  
SO 2 0.000  0.000  0.000

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HRA)
A)  
An HRA was required  because t he diesel particulate emissions from the project are 
greater than the toxic trigger level of 0.26 pounds /year  in Regulation 2- 5. Besides the 
source pertaining to this application, no other projects were permitted within the last five 
years for consideratio n. All PM 10 emissions  from this source  are considered diesel 
particulate emissions . These emissions are summarized above in Table 1. This 
application does not qualif y for HRA streamling because the diesel PM emissions do  
exceed the HRA streamlining thresholds . The streamlining thresholds for projects not 
located within an Overburdened Commuity, that are less than  100 feet  from  their nearest 
receptor, is 0.26 pounds per year of diesel particulate matter. This project is  less than  100 
feet from its neaserest receptor, and  emits a maximum of 0.94 pounds per year, below the 
0.26 pound per year threshold listed in the District’s streamlining policy. As such, a 
refined HRA was required, with the results  stated below.     
 
HRA Results  
Pursuant to a Health Risk Assessment (HRA) completed on June  22, 2023, the maximum 
project cancer risk is 0.96 in a million and the chronic hazard index (HI) is 0.00057.  The 
project is below a cancer risk of 10.0 in a milli on and a chronic HI of 1.0.  Therefore, the 
project meets the risk requirements of Regulation 2 -5-302.  Pursuant to Regulation 2- 5-
301, S -1 does not exceed a cancer risk of 1.0 in a million nor a chronic HI of 0.2 and istherefore not subject to Best Avail able Control Technology for Toxics (TBACT).
The project is in compliance with project risk requirements as recommended, limiting 
reliability -related activity hours by permit condition 100072 and 100073.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 Table 3. Health Risk Assessment  Results  
Maximally 
Exposed 
Receptor  Maximum Cancer 
Risk  Maximum 
Chronic Hazard 
Index  
Residential  0.96 chances in a 
million  0.00026 
Off-site worker  0.74 chances in a 
million  0.00057Toxics (TBACT).
Project Risk Limits  
Since the proposed engine, operating at  50 hours/year for reliability rela ted testing, 
complies with TBACT, and the estimated project cancer risk does not exceed 10 in a 
million and the chronic hazard index does not exceed 1.0, this project complies with the 
District’s Regulation 2 -5-302 project risk requirements. No additional operating hour 
restrictions were necessary for this project.Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regulationsnotification requirements of Regulation 2- 1-412 due to the increase in toxic emissions
from the project.  
 
A 30- day public notice will be  sent to all parents of students of the following school(s) 
and all residents and businesses within 1,000 feet of the facility. 
 
Table 5. Schools Subject to Public Noticing for Application # 672133  
School Name  Street Address  City 
All Children Academics  1665 Grand Ave nue San Rafael, CA, 94901  
Coleman Elementary School  800 Belle Avenue  San Rafael, CA, 94901

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
T)  
In accordance with Regulation 2 -2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified 
source with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, 
NOx, CO, SO 2, or PM 10.  
 
BACT for this source is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook for 
IC Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non- Agricultural, non- direct 
drive fire pump, Document #96.1.3, Revision 8. dated 12/22/2020. For NOx, CO, POC and 
PM 10, BACT(2) is the CARB ATCM standard for the respective pollutant at the applicable 
horsepower rating. For SO 2, BACT(2) is using fuel with sulfur content not to exceed 
0.0015%, or 15 ppm. The more restrictive BACT(1) standards are not applicable to this 
engine because it will be limited to operation as an emergency standby engine.  
 
S-1 satisfies the current BACT(2) standards for the following pollutants which exceed 10 
pounds /day in Table 1:  
 
  Pollutant   Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
  NOx    2.57 g/bhp- hr  2.85 g/bhp- hr    
    
* The standard is expressed as 3.0 g/bhp of NMHC+NOx.  NOx is estimated to be 95% 
of the combined standard (3.0*0.95 = 2.85 g/bhp -hr)

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

Offsets
ts  
Offset must be provided for any new or modified sourc e at a facility that will have the 
potential to emit more than 10 tons per year of NOx or POC, as specified in Regulation 2-
 
 4 2-302; 100 tons per year or more of PM2.5, PM10 or sulfur dioxide, as specified in 
Regulation 2- 2- 303. 
 
Table 4. Potential to Emit for FID 202894 
Pollutant  Existing  
Annual  
Emissions  
(TPY)  Application  
Annual

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

5 Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
n (PSD)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2- 2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project is ministerial under the District Regulation 2 -1-311 (Permit Handbook 
Chapter 2.3) and is therefore not subject to CEQA review.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart IIII ( Stationary Compression Ignition I nternal Combustion Engines ) 
 
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ ( Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE))

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6- 1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation)  
Regulation 9- 1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9- 8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Recordkeeping

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

School Notification (Regulation 2- 1-412)
Since this equipment will be located within 1,000 feet of a kindergarten through grade 12 
school site, or is located within an Overburdened Com munity  (OBC) , as defined in 
Regulation 2- 1-243, which  requires an HRA,  the project is subject to the publicnotification requirements of Regulation 2- 1-412. After the comments are received from
the public and reviewed, the District will make a final determination on the permit. I 
recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final action on issuance of an Authority to Construct and/or a Permit 
to Operate for the following equipment:  
 
 7 S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Set  
Make: Mitsubishi , Model: D04EG -TAA, Model Year: 2022  
85 Horsepower, 0.55 MMBtu/h our  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
 
Prepared By:  Kevin Creaven , Air Quality Engineer  I  
 
 8  
 
Attachment 1  
 
 

 
 9

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
ns  
 
Permit Condition #100072 for S -1 
 
1. The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigatin g emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
2. The owner/operator shall o perate each emergency standby engine only when a non-
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[Basis: Title 17, Califo rnia Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
3. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District- approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operati ng Permit). Log entries shall be retained on- site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability- related activities (maintenance and 
testing) .  
 
 6 b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with 
emission limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. I For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. Fuel usage 
for each engine(s).  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulatio ns, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
4. At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby diesel -fueled engine for non- emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located 
on school grounds)  
b. Betw een 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 
1 to 12, inclusive, but does not  include any private school in which education is 
primarily conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any 
building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but 
does not include unimproved school property. 
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities: 
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2 -5; Title 17, California Code 
of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
End of Conditions

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigatin g emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall o perate each emergency standby engine only when a non-
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[
Basis: Title 17, Califo rnia Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 3
Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District- approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operati ng Permit). Log entries shall be retained on- site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability- related activities (maintenance and 
testing) .  
 
 6 b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with 
emission limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. I For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. Fuel usage 
for each engine(s).  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulatio ns, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 4
At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby diesel -fueled engine for non- emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located 
on school grounds)  
b. Betw een 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 
1 to 12, inclusive, but does not  include any private school in which education is 
primarily conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any 
building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but 
does not include unimproved school property. 
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities: 
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase, Regulation 2 -5, Title 17, California Code 
of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
End of Conditions

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

Recommendation
on  
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the 
proposed project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to 
comply with all applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related 
regulations. The preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for the 
equipment listed below. However, the proposed source is subject to the public
