---
application_number: 664739
plant_name: 1001 Venture Way
plant_address: Gilroy, CA 95020
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2023/2023-664739-1001_Venture_Way__fid202771_nsr_664739_eval_060223_pdf__application_664739__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 664739)
**Plant**:  1001 Venture Way
**Address**: Gilroy, CA 95020

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
ound  
1001 Venture Way  is applying for an Authority to Construct/Permit to Operate for the 
following equipment : 
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Fire Pump Driver  (1001 Venture Way)  
Make: John Deere , Model: 6068HFC28A ,   
Year: 2022, 197 bhp, 1.41 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 , 100073 and 100 076 
 
S-2 Emergency Standby Diesel Fire Pump Driver  (901 Venture Way)  
Make: John Deere , Model: 6068HFC28A ,   
Year: 2022, 197  bhp, 1.41 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 , 100073 and 100076  
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and particulate 
matter (PM 10).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s web site at 
www.baaqmd.gov . 
 
S-1 and S -2 meet  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources 
Board (EPA/CARB) Tier 3 Off -road standard.  The engine will burn commercially 
available California low sul fur diesel fuel.  The sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not 
exceed 0.0015% by weight.   
 
This evaluation report will discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable 
rules and regulations.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

2 Emissions
2 Emissions  
 
Table 1. Annual and Daily Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data from S -1/S-2 
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
per Engine  
(lb/day)  Annual 
Emissions 
per Engine 
(lb/yr)  Annual 
Emissions 
per Engine 
(tons/yr)  Total 
Annual 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  2.83 29.47  61.46  0.031  0.062  
POC  0.09 0.94 1.95 0.001  0.002  
CO 0.89 9.27 19.33  0.010  0.020  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.09 0.94 1.95 0.001  0.002  
SO 2 N/A2 0.06 0.12 0.000  0.000  
Basis :   
➢ Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours for S -1 and S -2. 
➢ Max daily emissions: 24 -hour operation➢ Emissions from Carryover EPA Engine Family CJDXL06.8120 for both engines
(S-1 and S -2). 
➢ 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5  
➢ 2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4 -1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 0.00809*0.0015 
lb SO 2/bhp-hrEmissions Post
4/5/91 (tons/yr)  Application 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  Cumulative 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  0.000  0.062  0.062  
POC  0.000  0.002  0.002  
CO 0.000  0.020  0.020  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.002  0.002  
SO 2 0.000  0.000  0.000Emissions
(TPY)  Application  
Annual  
Emissions*  
(TPY)  Facility  
Annual  
Emissions  
(TPY) *  Offset  
Requirement  
(TPY)  Offset  
Required  
NOx  0.000  0.184  0.184  >10 N 
POC  0.000  0.006  0.006  >10 N 
CO 0.000  0.058  0.058  - N 
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.000  0.006  0.006   ≥100 N 
SO 2 0.000  0.001  0.001   ≥100 N 
*Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity of 50 hours and emergency operation of 100 hours 
for S -1, and S -2. 
 
Since the facility’s potential to emit is below the offsets trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2 -2, offsets are not required.

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

Plant Cumulative Increase
ease  
Table 2 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.  
 
Table 2. Plant Cumulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91  
Pollutant  Existing

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HR A)
R A) 
All PM10 emissions are considered diesel particulate emissions. The PM10 emissions from 
this application are summarized in Table 1. There were no other related projects permitted 
in the last five years.  Since the diesel particulate emissions from the project are greater 
than the toxic trigger le vel of 0.26 lb/year, an HRA is required.  This application did not 
qualify for HRA streamling.  
 
 
 
 
 
 3 HRA Results  
This analysis estimates the incremental health risk resulting from toxic air contaminant 
(TAC) emissions from non -emergency operation of a standby generator diesel engine at 
this facility.  Results from the HRA indicate that the project cancer risk is 0.33  in a million, 
and the project chronic hazard index (HI) is 0.00025. See HRA Report for more details.Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regulations

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

Best Available  Control Technology (BACT)
ACT)  
In accordance with Regulation 2 -2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified source 
with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, NOx, CO, 
SO 2, or PM 10.  
 
BACT for this source is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook for 
IC Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -Agricultural, non -direct 
drive fire pump, 50 -1000 bhp, Document #96.1.3, Revision 8, dated 12/22/2020.  
For NOx, CO, POC and PM 10, BACT(2) is the CARB ATCM st andard for the respective  
pollutant at the applicable horsepower rating. For SO 2, BACT(2) is using fuel with sulfur 
content not to exceed 0.0015%, or 15 ppm. The more restrictive BACT(1) standards are 
not applicable to this engine because it will be limite d to operation as an emergency standby 
engine.  
 
S-1 and S -2 are identical and both  satisf y the current BACT(2) standards for the following 
pollutants which exceed 10 lb/day in Table 1:  
 
  Pollutant   Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
  NOx *   2.83 g/bhp -hr  2.85 g/bhp -hr   
Basis : The standard is expressed as 3 .0 g/bhp of NMHC+NOx.  NOx is estimated to be 95% of the combined 
standard (3. 0*0.95 = 2.85 g/bhp -hr)

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

4 Offsets
4 Offsets  
Offset must be provided for any new or modified source at a facility that will have the 
potential to emit more than 10 tons per year of NOx or POC, as specified in Regulation 2 -
2-302; 100 tons per year or more of PM2.5, PM10 or sulfur dioxide, as specified in 
Regulation 2 -2- 303. 
 
Table 3. Potential to Emit for FID 202731  
Pollutant  Existing  
Annual

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
D)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2 -2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project is ministerial under the District Regulation 2 -1-311 (Permit Handbook 
Chapter 2.3)  and is therefore not subject to CEQA review.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart II II (Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines ) 
 
 
 
 5 National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ ( Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE) )

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
 
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6 -1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation )  
Regulation 9 -1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9 -8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Record keeping

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

School Notification (Regulation 2 -1-412)
The proposed source s are located within an Overburdened Community as defined in 
Regulation 2 -1-243 and req uire a Health Risk Assessment pursuant to Regulation 2 -5-401. 
Therefore, the proposed sources are subject to the public notification requirements of 
Regulation 2 -1-412. A public notice will be prepared and sent to all addresses within 1,000 
feet of the pro posed source s.requirements of Regulation 2 -1-412. After the comments are received from the public and
reviewed, the District will make a final determination on the permit.  
 
I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final action on issu ance of an Authority to Construct and/or a Permit to 
Operate for the following equipment:  
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Fire Pump Driver (1001 Venture Way)  
Make: John Deere , Model: 6068HFC28A ,   
Year: 2022, 197  bhp, 1.41 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100 072, 100073 and 100076  
 
S-2 Emergency Standby Diesel Fire Pump Driver (901 Venture Way)  
Make: John Deere , Model: 6068HFC28A ,   
Year: 2022, 197  bhp, 1.41 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 , 100073 and 100076  
 
Prepared by:  Isis Virrueta, AQE  
April 2023  
 
 
 
  
 
 8 Attachment 1  
 
 
 

 
 9

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
ns  
 
Permit Condition #100072 for S -1 and S -2 
 
1. The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing to 
show compliance  with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non-
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for  Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
3. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operating Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition.  
 
 6 e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[Basis: Title 17, Cali fornia Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
4. At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located on 
school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following requirements 
shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary emergency standby 
diesel -fueled engine for non -emergency use, including maintenance and testing, during 
the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the purposes 
of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12,  
inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is primarily 
conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any building or 
structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but does not 
include unimproved school property.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
 Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 and S -2 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine fo r 
reliability -related activities:  
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2 -5; Title 17, California Code of 
Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #10007 6 for S -1 and S -2 
 
The owner/operator shall operate this emergency standby engine only when directly 
coupled to pump(s) exclusively used in water -based fire protection system(s).  
 
 
 
End of Conditions

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing to 
show compliance  with District, state or Federal emission limits is not limited.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non-
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for  Stationary 
CI Engines]

- Item 3
Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operating Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition.  
 
 6 e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[
Basis: Title 17, Cali fornia Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 4
At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located on 
school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following requirements 
shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary emergency standby 
diesel -fueled engine for non -emergency use, including maintenance and testing, during 
the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the purposes 
of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12,  
inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is primarily 
conducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any building or 
structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but does not 
include unimproved school property.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
 Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 and S -2 
 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine fo r 
reliability -related activities:  
• 50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase, Regulation 2 -5, Title 17, California Code of 
Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #10007 6 for S -1 and S -2 
 
The owner/operator shall operate this emergency standby engine only when directly 
coupled to pump(s) exclusively used in water -based fire protection system(s).  
 
 
 
End of Conditions

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

7 Recommendation
7 Recommendation  
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the proposed 
project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to comply 
with all applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related 
regulations.  The preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for the 
equipment listed below. However, the proposed sources will be located within an 
Overburdened Community and require an HRA, which triggers the public notification
