---
application_number: 666748
plant_name: GOP5
plant_address: South San Francisco , CA 94080
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2023/2023-666748-GOP5__fid202823_nsr_666748_eval_032123_pdf__application_666748__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 666748)
**Plant**:  GOP5
**Address**: South San Francisco , CA 94080

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
nd  
 
ProActive Consulting., on behalf of BioMed Realty (GOP5) , is applying for an Authority 
to Construct  for the following equipment : 
 
S-1 Emergency  Standby Diesel Engine (B5N)  
Make:  Cummins , Model : QSK50 -G4 NR2 , Model Year: 2023  
2,220 bhp, 14.22 MMB TU/hr  
Permit Condition No . 100072, 100073, and 27784 
Abated by A -1 and A -2 
 
A-1 Diesel Particulate Filter  (B5N)  
 Cummins CA452 T4F After treatment  
 
A-2 Selective Catalytic Reduction  (B5N) 
 Cummins CA452 T4F After treatment  
 
S-2 Emergency  Standby Diesel Engine (B5 S) 
Make:  Cummins , Model : QSK50 -G4 NR2 , Model Year: 2023  
2,220 bhp, 14.22 MMB TU/hr  
Permit Condition No . 100072, 100073, and 27782 
Abated by A -3 and A -4 
 
A-3 Diesel Particulate Filter  (B5S) 
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
A-4 Selective Catalytic Reduction  (B5S) 
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and particulate 
matter (PM 10).  All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the District’s web site at 
www.baaqmd.gov . 
 
S-1 and S -2 meet  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources 
Board (EPA/CARB) Tier 2 Off-road standard and will be operated with a Diesel Particulate 
Filter (DPF) and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) to meet the EPA/CARB Tier 4 Off -
road standard .  The engine  will burn commercially available California low sulfur di esel 
fuel.  The sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not exceed 0.0015% by weight.   
 
 2  
This evaluation report will discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable 
rules and regulations.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

Emissions
ns  
 
Table 1. Annual and Daily  Emissions from E PA/CARB Certified Data from S -1 
 
Pollutant  Unabated  
Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Abated  
Emission  
Factor3,4,5 
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
(lb/day)  Annual 
Emissions 
(lb/yr)  Annual 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  4.46 0.50 58.68  122.25  0.061  
POC  0.14 0.14 16.63  34.65  0.017  
CO 1.34 1.34 157.59  328.31  0.164  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.06 0.02 2.33 4.87 0.002  
SO 2 N/A2 N/A2 0.64 1.34 6.72E -04 
Basis:   
 Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours  for S -1 
 Max daily emissions: 24- hour ope ration  
 Emissions from EPA Engine Family PCEXL050.AAD  for S -1 
 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5 
 2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4- 1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 
0.00809*0.0015 lb SO 2/bhp-hr 
 3 Used Tier 4  limit as abated emission factor for NOx  
 4Assuming no abatement of POC and CO, the EPA certified unabated 
emission factors were used as the abated emission factors  
 5Abated emission factor for PM is assumed to be the TBACT/Tier 4 limit 
of 0.02 g/bhp- hr 
 
Table 2. Annual and Daily  Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data from S -2 
 
Pollutant  Unabated  
Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Abated  
Emission  
Factor3,4,5  
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
(lb/day)  Annual 
Emissions 
(lb/yr)  Annual 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  4.46 0.50 58.68  122.25  0.061  
POC  0.14 0.14 16.63  34.65  0.017  
CO 1.34 1.34 157.59  328.31  0.164  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.06 0.02 2.33 4.87 0.002  
SO 2 N/A2 N/A2 0.64 1.34 6.72E -04 
Basis:   
 Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours  for S -2 
 Max daily emissions: 24- hour operation  
 Emissions from EPA Engine Family PCEXL050.AAD for  S-2 
 1 Conservative Assumption: All PM emissions are PM2.5 
 
 3  2 SO 2 emission factor from AP -42 Table 3.4- 1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 
0.00809*0.0015 lb SO 2/bhp-hr 
 3 Used Tier 4  limit as abated emission factor for NOx  
 4Assuming no abatement of POC and CO, the EPA certified unabated 
emission factors were used as the abated emission factors  
 5Abated emission factor for PM is assumed to be the TBACT/Tier 4 limit 
of 0.02 g/bhp- hr 
 
 
Ammonia Slip  
Both S -1 and S -2 will have an SCR installed (A -2 & A -4), which will control emissions 
with ammonia via catalytic reactions.  However, there will be a small amount of 
ammonia that will not react and will slip through the SCR.  Below are estimated 
Ammonia emissions from this project.  
 
Table 3. Emissions from Ammonia Slip  
 
Source #  Ammonia  
Slip Conc.  
(ppmv @ 
15% O 2) Ammonia  
Slip Conc.  
(ppmv @ 
0% O 2)  
Actual 
Temp.  
(°F) Actual 
Exhaust 
Flow 
Rate  
(acfm)  Dry 
Standard 
Exhaust 
Flow 
Rate  
(dscfm)  Hourly  
Emission  
Rate  
(lb/hr) Annual 
Emission  
Rate  
(lb/yr) 
S-1 10 35.42  915 12,065  2,121.4  1.99E -01 9.96E+00  
S-2 10 35.42  915 12,065  2,121.4  1.99E -01 9.96E+00  
Project       3.99E -01 1.99E+01  
Basis:   
 Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity 50 hours  for S -1 and 50 
hours for S -2 
 It is assumed that the exhaust water content is 12.5% by weight  
 It is assumed that the exhaust is at standard pressure  
 Volumetric concentrations were corrected to 0% O 2 from 15% O 2 
 The exhaust flow rates were corrected to 0% O 2 from 10% O 2emissions do not exceed an ammonia (NH3) slip
lip 
   of 10 ppmv, dry @15% O2 from the SCR system. If  
   deemed necessary to demonstrate compliance with  
   Regulation 2, Rule 5, the Air District may  
   require A source test to determine compliance  
   with this emission limit.  
   [Basis: Regulation 2, Rule 5]  
 
5. The owner/operator shall ensure engine  
   em issions do not exceed the following limits:  
   NOx: 0.50 g/bhp- hour 
   PM:   0.02 g/bhp- hour 
   CO:   2.60 g/bhp- hour 
   [Basis: BACT and Cumulative Increase]  
 
6. To demonstrate compliance with Part 5, the  
   owner/operator shall conduct an initial Air  
   District- approved source test on the engine  
   within 60 days of startup and once every three  
   years thereafter at the normal or expected load  
   during emergency operation using Air District  
   approved source test methods. The  
   owner/operator shall doc ument urea usage  
   (gallon per minute) and average kW during all  
   tests, preferable as digital records. The  
   owner/operator shall submit the source test  
   results to the Air District's Source Test  
   Section no later than 60 days after source test  
   completion. 
   [Basis: BACT and Cumulative Increase]  
 
7. The owner/operator shall comply with all  
   applicable testing, sampling port location and 
   safe access requirements as specified in Volume  
 
 11    IV of the Air District's Manual of Procedures.  
   The  owner/operator shall notify the Air  
   District's Source Test Section, in writing, of  
   the source test protocols, sampling port  
   locations, layout, access and projected test  
   dates at least 30 days prior to testing. The  
   following test methods sha ll be used for each  
   pollutant:  
   PM (filterable) EPA Method 5 or Air District-  
   approved equivalent  
   NOx              EPA Method 7E or Air District-  
   approved Equivalent  
   CO               EPA Method 10 or Air District - 
   approved equivalent  
   [Basis: Regulation 2 -1-403] 
 
8. To determine compliance with the aboveemissions do not exceed an ammonia (NH3) slip
lip 
   of 10 ppmv, dry @ 15% O2 f rom the SCR system.  
   If deemed necessary to demonstrate compliance  
   with Regulation 2, Rule 5, the Air District may  
   require a source test to determine compliance  
   with this emission limit.  
   [Basis: Regulation 2, Rule 5]  
 
5. The owner/operator sh all ensure engine  
   emissions do not exceed the following limit:  
 
 13    NOx:            0.50 g/bhp- hour 
   CO:             2.60 g/bhp- hour 
   [Basis: BACT and Cumulative Increase]  
 
6. To demonstrate compliance with Part 5, the  
   owner/operator shall conduct an initial Air  
   District- approved source test on the engine  
   within 60 days of startup and once every three  
   years thereafter at the normal or expected load  
   during emergency operation using Air District  
   approved source test methods. The  
   owner/ operator shall document urea usage  
   (gallons per minute) and average kW during all  
   tests, preferable as digital records. The  
   owner/operator shall submit the source test  
   results to the Air District's Source Test  
   Section no later than 60 days a fter source test  
   completion. 
   [Basis: BACT and Cumulative Increase]  
 
7. The owner/operator shall comply with all  
   applicable testing, sampling port location and 
   safe access requirements as specified in Volume  
   IV of the Air District's Manual of Procedures.  
   The owner/operator shall notify the Air  
   District's Source Test Section, in writing, of  
   the source test protocols, sampling port  
   locations, layout, access and projected test  
   dates at least 30 days prior to testing. The  
   following test methods shall be used for each  
   pollutant:  
   NOx                 EPA Method 7E or Air  
   District- approved equivalent  
   CO                  EPA Method 10 or Air  
   District- approved equivalent  
   [Basis: Regulation 2 -1-403] 
 
8. To determ ine compliance with the above parts,  
   the owner/operator shall maintain the following 
   records in a Air District- approved log and  
   shall make these records available to Air  
   District staff upon request. All records shall 
   be retained for at least  36 months from the  
   date of entry (60 months if the facility has  
   been issued a Title V Major Facility Review  
   Permit or Synthetic Minor Operating Permit).  
 
 14    These recordkeeping requirements shall not  
   replace the recordkeeping requirements  
   contained in any applicable District or state  
   regulations. 
   a. Source Test Notifications  
   b. All source test reports  
   c. Engine serial number and source number for  
      each source test  
   d. Engine load percentage  
   e. Engine, SCR, and DPF mainte nance records  
   f. SCR system owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   g. DPF owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   h. All backpressure monitor notifications and 
      corrective actions  
   i. SCR urea injection rate (gpm)  
   [Basis: BACT, Cumulative Increase,  
   Recordkeeping]  
 
 
End of Conditions

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

Plant Cumulative Increase
se  
 
Table 4 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4  
Table 4. Plant C umulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91 
 
Pollutant  Existing Emissions 
Post 4/5/91 (tons/yr)  Application 
Emissions 
(tons/yr)  Cumulative Emissions 
(tons/yr)  
NOx  0.000  0.122  0.122  
POC  0.000  0.035  0.035  
CO 0.000  0.328  0.328  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.005  0.005  
SO 2 0.000  0.001  0.001Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR Section
ion  
   93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR1039.101, BACT, TBACT]  
 
2. The owner/operator shall take all corrective  
   actions recommended by the manufacturer in  
   response to backpressure monitor notifications. 
 
 10    [Basis: Cumu lative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, 
   TBACT]  
 
3. The owner/operator shall ensure urea injection  
   commences as soon as the SCR catalyst bed  
   reaches minimum operating temperature as  
   specified by the manufacturer.   [Basis:  
   Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR Section  
   93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, TBACT]  
 
4. The owner/operator shall ensure engine

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HR A)
A) 
 
HRA was required. The diesel particulate emissions from  the project are greater than the 
toxic trigger level of 0.26 lb/year. All PM 10 emissions are considered diesel particulate 
emissions. There were no other related projects permitted in the last five  years.   This 
application did not qualify for HRA streamli ning due to PM emission levels and proximity 
to the nearest sensitive receptor.   Because the addition of SCRs to the engines invalidates 
the CARB verification of the DPFs, the HRA was run at the unabated Diesel PM emission 
rates to determine the applicabil ity of Best Available Control Technology for Toxics 
(TBACT).  The unabated Diesel PM emission rates for S -1 and S -2 are summarized in 
Table 5 below.  
 
Table 5. Unabated PM Emission Rates from S -1 & S -2 
 
Source ID  Non-Emergency 
Operating  
(hours/year)  Unabated Annual Diesel 
PM Emission Rate  
(lbs/year)  
S-1 50 14.6 
S-2 50 14.6 
Project  100 29.2Ammonia emissions are not expected to exceed Regulation 2- 5 acute and chronic toxic
trigger level of 7.1 lbs/hr and 7,700 lbs/year, respectively.  However, ammonia emissions 
were included in the HRA.   The HRA results are summarized below.  
 
Table 6. Individual Source HRA Results for S -1 & S -2 
 
Source ID  Cancer Risk  
(Worker)  Cancer Risk  
(Resident)  
S-1 1.28 in a million  0.14 in a million  
S-2 0.35 in a million  0.15 in a million  
 
 
 
 
 5 Table 7. Project  HRA Results  
 
Receptor  Cancer Risk  Chronic Non -Cancer 
Hazard Index  Acute Hazard Index  
Resident  0.29 in a million  0.000079  N/A 
Worker  1.6 in a million  0.0013  N/A 
PMI (1 -hour)  N/A N/A 0.0036  
 
The results from the  health risk screening analysis indicate that the maximum proejct 
cancer risk  ( worker ) is estimated at 1.6 in a million, the maximum project chronic hazard 
index (worker) is estimated at 0.0013, and the maximum project acute hazard index (PMI)  
is 0.0036.   
 
The HRA results deem that the project  is in compliance with the project risk limitation of 
6 in a million for sources located within an overburdened community, limiting reliability -
related activity hours by permit condition to 50 hours per year.  In accordance with the 
District's Regulation 2, Rule 5, this risk level is considered acceptable.  See HRA report.  
 
Because the individual cancer risk from S -1 exceeds 1.0 in a million, t he facility will be 
conditioned to perform source testing for PM to ensure that S -1 can meet the TBACT 
standard.  S -2 will not require source testing for PM because the individual cancer risk is 
below 1.0 in a million.  Operating the engines with the DPFs will lower the PM emission 
rates from both engines.  Therefore, the actual cancer risk is expected to be lower than the 
values summarized above.Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regulations

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

6 Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
BACT)  
 
In accordance with Regulation 2- 2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified source 
with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, NOx, CO, 
SO 2, or PM 10.  
 
BACT for th ese source s is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook 
for IC Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -Agricultural, non- direc t 
drive fire pump, Document #96.1.5, Revision 0. dated 12/22/2020. For NOx, CO, POC and 
PM 10, BACT(2) is the CARB ATCM standard for the respective pollutant at the applicable 
horsepower rating. For SO 2, BACT(2) is using fuel with sulfur content not to exce ed 
0.0015%, or 15 ppm. The more restrictive BACT(1) standards are not applicable to this 
engine because it will be limited to operation as an emergency standby engine.  
 
The POC and CO emission factors are EPA certified values for the engine family.  The  
abated  NOx emission factor is not EPA certified and will therefore be assumed to be the 
BACT (2) limit.  The owner/operator of S -1 and S -2 will need to verify compliance with 
the NOx BACT (2) standard through performance of a source test.  Subsequently, the 
owner/operator will also need to perform a source test for CO to verify compliance with 
the CO BACT (2) standard. 
 
S-1 and S -2 satisf y the current BACT(2) standards for the following pollutants which 
exceed 10 lb/day in Table s 1 and 2:  
 
  Pollutant   Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
  NOx    0.50 g/bhp- hr  0.50 g/bhp- hr  
  POC    0.14 g/bhp- hr  0.14 g/bhp- hr 
  CO   1.34 g/bhp- hr  2.60 g/bhp- hr

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

Offsets
fsets  
 
Per Regulation 2- 2-302, offsets must be provided if, after a new or modified source is 
constructed, a facility that has the potential to emit (PTE) more than 10 tons/yr of POC or 
NOx.  The PTE for emergency- use engines will include the hours allowed for test a nd 
maintenance, as well as an assumed 100 hours per year for emergencies.  Based on the 
emission calculations in Table 8, offsets are not required for this application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 Table 8. Potential to Emit for Facility ID 202823 
Pollutant  Existing 
Annual PTE 
Emissions 
(ton/yr)  Application 
Annual PTE  
(ton/yr)  Facility 
Annual 
PTE  
(ton/yr)  Offset 
Requirement 
(ton/yr)  Offset 
Required?  
POC  0.000  0.104  0.104  10 N 
NOx  0.000  0.367  0.367  10 N 
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.015  0.015  100 N 
SO2 0.000  0.004  0.004  100 N 
CO 0.000  0.985  0.985  - N 
 
Since the facility permitted levels are below the offset trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2- 2, offsets are not required.

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
D)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2- 2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project is ministerial under the District Regulation 2 -1-311 (Permit Handbook 
Chapter 2.3) and is therefore not subject to CEQA review.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart IIII ( Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines ) 
 
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ ( Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE))

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
 
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6- 1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation)  
Regulation 9- 1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9- 8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Recordkeeping

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

8 Public  Notification (Regulation 2- 1-412)
) 
 
This project is not located within 1,000 feet of the nearest K -12 school, but it is located in 
an overburdened community (OBC) and did require an HRA.  This project is therefore 
subject to a public notice.  A public notice w ill be  sent to all residents and  businesses within 
1,000 feet of the facility and there will be a  30-day public comment period .

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
ns  
 
Permit Condition # 100072 Applies to S -1 & S -2 
1. The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related  activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding 
emission testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while 
emission testing to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits 
is not limited.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a 
non-resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 
hours) that measures the hours  of operation for the engine is installed, operated 
and properly maintained.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
3. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District-approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if 
the facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic 
Minor Operating Permit). Log entries shall be retained on- site, either at a central 
location or  at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the 
District staff upon request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability- related activities (maintenance and 
testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. 
e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]  
4. At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby diesel -fueled engine for non- emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
 
 9 a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
“School” or “School Grounds” means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of 
grades 1 to 12, inclusive, but does not include any private school in which 
education is primarily conducted in a private home(s). “School” or “School 
Grounds” includes any building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other 
areas of school property but does not include unimproved school property. 
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM f or 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
 
Permit Condition # 100073 Applies to S -1 & S -2 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities: 
50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase; Re gulation 2- 5; Title 17, California Code of Regulations, 
section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #27784 Applies to S -1 
 
Tier 2 Engines, equipped with add- on SCR and DPF;  
ST for NOx/CO & PM.  
 
1. The owner/ope rator shall ensure the engine is  
   abated at all times of operation by an approved  
   Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) System and  
   Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) equipped with a  
   backpressure monitor or other approved Diesel  
   Exhaust Particulate  Matter Abatement System.  
   The engine, SCR System, and DPF with 
   backpressure monitor or other approved system  
   shall be installed, maintained, and operated in  
   accordance with the manufacturer specifications  
   and/or best modern practices.  [Basi s:conditions, the owner/operator shall maintain
ain  
   the following records in a Air District - 
   approved log and shall make these records  
   available to Air District staff upon request.  
   All records shall be retained for at least 36  
   months from the date of entry (60 months if the  
   facility has been issued a Title V Major  
   Facility Review Permit or Synthetic Minor  
   Operating Permit). These recordkeeping  
   requirements shall not replace the  
   recordkeeping requirements contained in any  
   applicable Air District or state regulations.  
   a. Source Test Notifications  
   b. All source test reports  
   c. Engine serial number and source number for  
      each source test  
   d. Engine load percentage  
   e. Engine, SCR, and DPF maintenance records  
   f. SCR system owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   g. DPF owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   h. All backpressure monitor notifications and 
      corrective actions  
   i. SCR urea injection rate (gpm)  
   [Basis: BACT, Cumulative Increase,  
   Recordkeeping]  
 
 
 
 12 Permit Condition #27782 Applies to S -2 
 
Tier 2 Engines, equipped with add- on SCR and DPF;  
ST for NOx/CO  
 
1. The owner/operator shall ensure the engine is  
   abated at all times of operation by an approved  
   Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) System and  
   Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) equipped with a  
   backpressure monitor or other approved Diesel  
   Exhaust Pa rticulate Matter Abatement System.  
   The engine, SCR System, and DPF with 
   backpressure monitor, or other approved system  
   shall be installed, maintained, and operated in  
   accordance with the manufacturer specifications  
   and/or best modern practices.  
   [Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, 
   TBACT]  
 
2. The owner/operator shall take all corrective  
   actions recommended by the manufacturer in  
   response to backpressure monitor notificati ons. 
   [Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, 
   TBACT]  
 
3. The owner/operator shall ensure urea injection  
   commences as soon as the SCR catalyst bed  
   reaches the minimum operating temperature as  
   specified by the manufacturer.  
   [Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, 
   TBACT]  
 
4. The owner/operator shall ensure engine

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related  activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding 
emission testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while 
emission testing to show compliance with District, state or Federal emission limits 
is not limited.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a 
non-resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 
hours) that measures the hours  of operation for the engine is installed, operated 
and properly maintained.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 3
Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District-approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if 
the facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic 
Minor Operating Permit). Log entries shall be retained on- site, either at a central 
location or  at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the 
District staff upon request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability- related activities (maintenance and 
testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with emission 
limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. 
e. Fuel usage for each engine(s).  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 4
At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby diesel -fueled engine for non- emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
 
 9 a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located on 
school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
“School” or “School Grounds” means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of 
grades 1 to 12, inclusive, but does not include any private school in which 
education is primarily conducted in a private home(s). “School” or “School 
Grounds” includes any building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other 
areas of school property but does not include unimproved school property. 
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM f or 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
 
Permit Condition # 100073 Applies to S -1 & S -2 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities: 
50 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase, Re gulation 2- 5, Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #27784 Applies to S -1 
 
Tier 2 Engines, equipped with add- on SCR and DPF, ST for NOx/CO & PM.

- Item 1
The owner/ope rator shall ensure the engine is  
   abated at all times of operation by an approved  
   Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) System and  
   Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) equipped with a  
   backpressure monitor or other approved Diesel  
   Exhaust Particulate  Matter Abatement System.  
   The engine, SCR System, and DPF with 
   backpressure monitor or other approved system  
   shall be installed, maintained, and operated in  
   accordance with the manufacturer specifications  
   and/or best modern practices.  [Basi s:conditions, the owner/operator shall maintain
ain  
   the following records in a Air District - 
   approved log and shall make these records  
   available to Air District staff upon request.  
   All records shall be retained for at least 36  
   months from the date of entry (60 months if the  
   facility has been issued a Title V Major  
   Facility Review Permit or Synthetic Minor  
   Operating Permit). These recordkeeping  
   requirements shall not replace the  
   recordkeeping requirements contained in any  
   applicable Air District or state regulations.  
   a. Source Test Notifications  
   b. All source test reports  
   c. Engine serial number and source number for  
      each source test  
   d. Engine load percentage  
   e. Engine, SCR, and DPF maintenance records  
   f. SCR system owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   g. DPF owner's manual or manufacturer's  
      specifications  
   h. All backpressure monitor notifications and 
      corrective actions  
   i. SCR urea injection rate (gpm)  
   [
Basis: BACT, Cumulative Increase, Recordkeeping]  
 
 
 
 12 Permit Condition #27782 Applies to S -2 
 
Tier 2 Engines, equipped with add- on SCR and DPF, ST for NOx/CO

- Item 1
The owner/operator shall ensure the engine is  
   abated at all times of operation by an approved  
   Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) System and  
   Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) equipped with a  
   backpressure monitor or other approved Diesel  
   Exhaust Pa rticulate Matter Abatement System.  
   The engine, SCR System, and DPF with 
   backpressure monitor, or other approved system  
   shall be installed, maintained, and operated in  
   accordance with the manufacturer specifications  
   and/or best modern practices.  
   [
Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, TBACT]

- Item 2
The owner/operator shall take all corrective  
   actions recommended by the manufacturer in  
   response to backpressure monitor notificati ons. 
   [
Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, TBACT]

- Item 3
The owner/operator shall ensure urea injection  
   commences as soon as the SCR catalyst bed  
   reaches the minimum operating temperature as  
   specified by the manufacturer.  
   [
Basis: Cumulative Increase, Title 17 CCR  
   Section 93115.6(a)(3), 40 CFR 1039.101, BACT, TBACT]

- Item 4
The owner/operator shall ensure engine

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

Recommendation
on  
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the project 
and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to comply with all 
applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related regulations.  The 
preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for the equipment listed 
below.  However, the proposed source will be located in an overburdened community 
(OBC) , which triggers the public notification requirements of District Regulat ion 2- 1-
412.  After the comments are received and taken into consideration, the District will make 
a final determination on the permit.   
  
I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final a ction on issuance of an Authority to Construct for the following 
source s: 
 
S-1 Emergency  Standby Diesel Engine (B5N)  
Make:  Cummins , Model : QSK50 -G4 NR2 , Model Year: 2023  
2,220 bhp, 14.22 MMB TU/hr  
Permit Condition No . 100072, 100073, and 27784 
Abated by A -1 and A -2 
 
A-1 Diesel Particulate Filter (B5N)  
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
 
 15 A-2 Selective Catalytic Reduction (B5N)  
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
S-2 Emergency  Standby Diesel Engine (B5S)  
Make:  Cummins , Model : QSK50 -G4 NR2 , Model Year: 2023  
2,220 bhp, 14.22 MMB TU/hr  
Permit Condition No . 100072, 100073, and 27782 
Abated by A -3 and A -4 
 
A-3 Diesel Particulate Filter (B5S)  
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
A-4 Selective Catalytic Reduction (B5S)  
 Cummins CA452 T4F Aftertreatment  
 
 
 
Prepared by:  Cameron Fee, Air Quality Engineer I   
 
 
 16
