---
application_number: 710255
plant_name: Facility I D: 203617
plant_address: Fremont, CA 94536
source_json: data/permit_evaluations_json/2024/2024-710255-Facility_I_D_203617__fid203617_nsr_710255_eval_110824_pdf__application_710255__eval_01.json
---

# Engineering Evaluation (Application 710255)
**Plant**:  Facility I D: 203617
**Address**: Fremont, CA 94536

## background
JSONPath: `$.background.text`

Background
nd  
Aegis Gardens Fremont (Aegis)  is applying for an Authority to Construct/Permit to 
Operate for the following equipment:  
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Engine  
Make: Iveco/FPT , Model: F4GE9685A*J , Model Year: 2022 
198 bhp,  1.4 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
The criteria pollutants are nitrogen oxides (NO X), carbon monoxide (CO), precursor 
organic compounds (POC) from unburned diesel fuel, sulfur dioxide (SO 2), and 
particulate matter (PM 10/PM 2.5). All of these pollutants are briefly discussed on the 
District’s web site at www.baaqmd.gov . 
 
S-1 meets  the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board 
(EPA/CARB ) Tier 3 nonroad emission standards .  The engine will burn commercially 
available California low sulfur diesel fuel.  The sulfur content of the diesel fuel will not 
exceed 0.0015% by weight.   
 
This application originally considered 50 annual hours of reliability -related testing for the 
engine, but Aegis has proposed to reduce the permit limit to 25 hours/year to  comply with 
the District’s Regulation 2 -5-302 project risk requirements . This evaluation report will 
discuss compliance of the proposed project with all applicable rules and regulations.

## emission_calculations
JSONPath: `$.emission_calculations.text`

Emission s
Table 1. S-1 Annual and Daily Emissions from EPA/CARB Certified Data  
Pollutant  Emission 
Factor  
(g/bhp -hr) Max Daily 
Emissions  
(lb/day)  Annual 
Emissions 
(lb/yr)  Annual 
Emissions 
(ton/yr)  
NO X 2.70 28.3 29 0.015  
POC  0.12 1.2 1 0.001  
CO 0.60 6.2 7 0.003  
PM 10/PM 2.51 0.12 1.2 1.3 0.001  
SO 2 N/A2 0.1 0 0.000  
Basis:   
➢ Annual emissions  are based on 25 hours of r eliability -related activity  
➢ Maximum  daily emissions  are conservatively  based on  24 hours of operation  
➢ Emissions for S -1 are from EPA Engine Family : NFPXL06.7DGB  
➢ 1PM 2.5 emissions are conservatively assumed to be equal to PM 10 emissions  
➢ 2SO 2 emission factor is derived from AP -42 Table 3.4 -1, SO 2 (15 ppm) = 
0.00809*0.0015 lb SO 2/bhp-hr 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255Emissions
(ton/yr)  Cumulative 
Emissions  
(ton/yr)  
NO X 0.000  0.015  0.015  
POC  0.000  0.001  0.001  
CO 0.000  0.003  0.003  
PM 10/PM 2.5 0.000  0.001  0.001  
SO 2 0.000  0.000  0.000

## cumulative_increase
JSONPath: `$.cumulative_increase.text`

2 Plant Cumulative Increase
ase  
Table 2 summarizes the cumulative increase in criteria pollutant emissions that will result 
from this application.  
 
Table 2. Plant Cumulative Emissions Increase, Post 4/5/91  
Pollutant  Existing Emissions 
Post 4/5/91 (ton/yr)  Application

## toxic_risk_screening_analysis
JSONPath: `$.toxic_risk_screening_analysis.narrative`

Health Risk Assessment (HRA)
A)  
Pursuant to Regulation 2 -5-110, a project shall not be subject to this rule if, for each toxic 
air contaminant (TAC) , the total project emissions are below the acute and chronic trigger 
levels listed in Table 2 -5-1 of this regulation.   A project includes all new or modified 
sources of TACs from related applications permitted within the last five years.   
 
Before the HRA was conducted, engine emissions were calculated using 50 annual hours 
of reliability -related testing. This resulted in a PM 10 emission rate of 2.6 lb/yr. Since a ll 
PM 10 emissions are conservatively considered diesel particulate matter (DPM), DPMemissions from the project were  greater than the toxic trigger level of 0.26 lb/ yr. There
were no other related projects permitted in the last five years.  
 
Since project DPM  emissions were  greater than the toxic trigger level of 0.26 lb/ yr, an 
HRA was required. This application did not qualify for HRA streamlin ing. 
 
HRA Results  
This analysis estimat ed the incremental health risk resulting from TAC emissions from 
the non-emergency operation of a standby diesel generator engin e at this facility. The 
HRA was first conducted assuming the engine would operate for  up to 50 hours/year. 
Results from the first HRA  run indicate d that the maximum project cancer risk was 
estimated at 19 in a million, and the maximum project chronic hazard index was 
estimated at 0.0050. Since the  estimated project cancer risk exceed ed 10 in a million, the 
proposed project would  not comply  with the District’s Regulation 2 -5-302 project risk 
requirements, for projects not located in an  Overburdened Community, as defined in 
Regulation 2 -1-243.  
 
In order to reduce the project  cancer risk to less than 10 in a million, the applicant needed 
to consider limiting operations to no  more than 25 hours per year.  Aegis has accepted this 
operational limit. A second HRA was conducted assuming the engine would operate for 
up to 25 hours/year. Results from the second HRA  run indicate d that the maximum 
project cancer risk is estimated at 9.3 in a million, and the maximum project chronic 
hazard index is estimated at 0.0025. Table 3 summarizes the results from the two HRA 
runs.  
 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 3 Table 3. Risk Screening Results  
HRA Run  Annual Non -
Emergency 
Operating Time 
(hours/year)  Maximally 
Exposed Receptor  Maximum 
Cancer Risk  
(in a million)  Maximum 
Chronic 
Hazard Index  
1 50 Resident  19 0.0050  
Worker  0.78 0.00060  
2 25 Resident  9.3 0.0025  
Worker  0.39 0.00030Best Available Control Technology for Toxics (T BACT )
In accordance with the District’s Regulation 2 -5-301, this source requires  TBACT 
because the estimated source cancer risk  is greater than 1.0 in a million.  BACT and 
TBACT determinations for compression ignition engines with a rated capacity between 
50-1000 bhp are described in BAAQMD BACT/TBACT Workbook for IC Engines – 
Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -Agricultural, non -direct drive fire 
pump, Document #96.1.3, Revision 8. dated 12/22/2020 (see Attachment 1) .  The 
proposed engine complies with TBACT b ecause the engine’s certified PM emission rate 
of 0.12 g/bhp -hr is less than the required TBACT emission limit  of 0.15 g/bh p-hr.   
 
Project Risk Limits  
Since the proposed engine, operating at 25 hours /year for reliability related testing, 
complies with TBACT, and the estimated project cancer risk does not exceed 10 in a 
million and the chronic hazard index does not exceed 1.0, this project complies with the 
District’s Regulation 2 -5-302 project risk re quirements.determined to be meeting the CARB Air Toxics Control Measure (ATCM) standard for
the respective pollutant at the applicable horsepower rating.  
 
Technologically Feasible and Cost -Effective.  
The following control technologies and mitigation measures have been found technically 
feasible for abating NO X emissions from internal combustion engines1:  
➢ Engine ignition timing retard (achievable NO X reduction 20 to 30 percent), and  
➢ Selective catalytic reduction (achievable NO X reduction of 90 percent)  
 
Although Regulation 2 -2 does not include a definition for cost -effectiveness, Section 2 -2-
414 requires the Air District to publish and periodically update a BACT Workbook and 
that BACT will be determined using the workbook as a guidance document.  
 
Section 1 of the BACT Workbook includes a maximum cost guideline for NO X emissions 
of $17,500 per ton of emissions reduced. Using these maximum cost effectiveness values 
and assuming that 90 percent of the emissions in Table 1 could  be abated, maximum 
annualized costs controls could not exceed $232 for NO X controls  to be deemed cost -
effective.  
 
All NO X controls are expected to exceed maximum annualized costs. Therefore, requiring 
more stringent controls than meeting achieved -in-practice requirements is deemed not 
cost-effective.  
 
Consequently, S -1 is required to comply with the current achieved -in-practice standards:  
 
Pollutant  Emission Factor  BACT(2) Standard  
NO X*   2.70 g/bhp -hr       2.85 g/bhp -hr       
 
* The standard is expressed as 3. 0 g/bhp of NMHC  + NOx.  NOx is estimated to be 95% of the combined 
standard (3. 0*0.95 = 2.85 g/bhp -hr)Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Stationary Compression Ignition Engines
ATCM, 5/19/2011, section 93115, title 17, CA Code of Regulations

## BACT
JSONPath: `$.BACT.text`

Best Available Control Technology (BACT)
T)  
In accordance with Regulation 2 -2-301, BACT is triggered for any new or modified 
source with the potential to emit 10 pounds or more per highest day of POC, NPOC, 
NOx, CO, SO 2, PM 10, or PM 2.5.  
 
As shown in Table 1, emissions  of NO X exceed 10.0 pounds per day and thus trigger 
BACT requirements.  
 
Per Section 2 -2-202, BACT is defined as an emission limitation, control device, or 
control technique applied at a source that is the most stringent of:  
 
➢ the most effective device or technique successfully utilized,  
➢ the most stringent emission limitation achieved by an emission control device or 
technique for the type of equipment comprising such a source,  
➢ the most effective emission control limitation for the type of equipment comprising 
such a source that is contained in an approved implementation plan of any state, or  
➢ the most effective control device or technique or most stringent emission limitation 
that is technologically feasible, taking into consideration cost -effectiveness, any 
ancillary health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements.  
 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 4 These requirements are generally categorized as either technologically feasible and cost -
effective (termed “BACT 1”) or achieved -in-practice (termed “BACT 2”).  
 
BACT 2 is either equal to or less stringent than BACT 1. Because achieved -in-practice is 
required regardless of cost and BACT 1 is more stringent than BACT 2, an evaluation for 
what has been achieved -in-practice is first conducted.  
 
Achieved -in-Practice.  
Achieved -in-practice BACT is presented in the current BAAQMD BACT/TBACT 
Workbook for IC Engine – Compression Ignition: Stationary Emergency, non -
Agricultural, non -direct drive fire pump 50 BHP and < 1000 BHP Output, Document 
#96.1.3, Revision 8, dated 12/2 2/2020. For NO X, achieved -in-practice BACT has been

## offsets
JSONPath: `$.offsets.narrative`

Offsets
ts  
Offset must be provided for any new or modified source at a facility that will have the 
potential to emit more than 10 tons per year of NOx or POC, as specified in Regulation 2 -
 
1 United States Environmental Protection Agency. Control Techniques Guidelines for Alternative Control 
Techniques Document – NOx Emissions from Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines. 
EPA -453/R -93-032. July 1993. Updated September 2000.  
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 5 2-302; 100 tons per year or more of PM 2.5, PM 10 or SO 2, as specified in Regulation 2 -2- 
303. 
 
Table 4. Potential to Emit for F acility ID: 203617  
Pollutant  Annual Emissions  
(ton/yr)*  Offset s 
Requirement  
(ton/yr ) Offset s 
Required ? Existing  Application  Facility  
NOx  0 0.074  0.074  >10 No 
POC  0 0.003  0.003  >10 No 
CO 0 0.016  0.016  - No 
PM 10/PM 2.51 0 0.003  0.003   ≥100 No 
SO 2 0 0.000  0.000   ≥100 No 
*Annual emissions: Reliability -related activity of 25 hours and emergency operation of 100 hours 
for S -1. 
 
Since the facility’s potential to emit is below the offsets trigger levels specified in 
Regulation 2 -2, offsets are not required.

## PSD_applicability
JSONPath: `$.PSD_applicability.narrative`

Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
D)  
This application is not part of a PSD project as defined in Regulation 2 -2.

## CEQA
JSONPath: `$.CEQA.narrative`

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
A)  
This project includes an internal combustion diesel engine that will power an emergency 
generator that may be employed to mitigate unforeseen loss of power events and prevent 
or reduce damage to life, health, and property at an existing facility.  
 
The 2023 CEQA Statue and Guidelines lists classes of projects in Section 15300, which 
have been determined not to have a significant effect on the environment and which shall, 
therefore, be exempt from the provisions of CEQA.  
 
Section 15301 lists Class 1 projects that involve negligible or no expansion of use.  This 
includes additions to existing structures provided that the addition will not result in an 
increase of more than 50 percent of the floor area of the structures befor e the addition, or 
2,500 square feet, whichever is less, as listed in Section 15301(e)(1). Staff has reviewed 
the proposed facility’s layout, existing structures, and project information has determined 
that the footprint of the emergency generator structur e will not exceed 50 percent, or 
2,500 square feet, of the floor area of the existing structure.  
 
Since the footprint of the emergency generator is expected not to exceed 50 percent of the 
floor area of the existing structure, or 2,500 square feet, this project is exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA and no further CEQA analysis is required.  
 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)  
40 CFR 60, Subpart IIII ( Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines ) 
 
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)  
40 CFR 63, Subpart ZZZZ ( Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines 
(RICE) )

## Statement_of_Compliance
JSONPath: `$.Statement_of_Compliance`

### General
Statement of Compliance
ce  
The owner/operator is expected to comply with all applicable requirements. Key 
requirements are listed below:District Rules
es  
Regulation 6 -1-303 ( Ringelmann No. 2 Limitation )  
Regulation 6 -1-310 ( Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) Concentration Limits; see below ) 
Regulation 9 -1-301 ( Limitations on Ground Level Concentrations of SO 2)  
Regulation 9 -8 (NOx and CO from Stationary Internal Combustion Engines ) 
Section 9 -8-110.5 – Limited exemption for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-330 – Hours of operation for emergency standby engines  
Section 9 -8-502 – Recordkeeping

## public_notification
JSONPath: `$.public_notification.text`

Public Notification (Regulation 2 -1-412)
S-1 is not located within an Overburdened Community, as defined in Regulation 2 -1-243. 
S-1 is located within 1,000 feet of the outer boundary of multiple  K-12 school s. 
Therefore, S -1 is subject to the public notification requirements of Regulation 2 -1-412. 
Table 5 summarizes the schools that are subject to public notice for this application.  
 
Table 5. Schools Subject to Public Noticing for Application No. 710255  
School Name  Street Address  
American High School  36300 Fremont Blvd  
Fremont, CA 94536  
Oliveira Elementary School  4180 Alder Ave  
Fremont, CA 94536  
 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 6 A public notice will be sent to all parents or guardians of students enrolled at the schools 
listed above within ¼ mile of the source and all businesses and residents within 1000’ of 
the proposed source.  
 
All comments received shall be summarized in the final evaluation report.requirements of Regulation 2 -1-412. After the comments are received from the public
and reviewed, the District will make a final determination on the permit.  
 
I recommend that the District initiate a public notice and consider any comments received 
prior to taking any final action on issuance of an Authority to Construct and/or a Permit 
to Operate for the following equipment:  
 
S-1 Emergency Standby Diesel Engine  
Make: Iveco/FPT , Model: F4GE9685A*J , Model Year: 2022 
198 bhp, 1.4 MMBtu/hr  
Permit Condition No s. 100072 and 100073  
 
Prepared By:  Kristine Ferguson      Date: 10/22/24 
                       Air Quality Engineer 1   
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 9  
 
Attachment 1  
 
 
 

Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 10

## conditions
JSONPath: `$.conditions.text`

Permit Conditions
ns  
Permit Condition #100072 for S -1 
1. The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emis sion limits is not limited.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 7 2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non -
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9,999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained . 
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
3. Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operati ng Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and 
testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with 
emission limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. I For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. Fuel usage 
for each engine(s).  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
4. At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby di esel-fueled engine for non -emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located 
on school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 
1 to 12, inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is 
primarily con ducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any 
building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but 
does not include unimproved school property.  
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities:  
• 25 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase; Regulation 2 -5; Title 17, California Code 
of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
End of Conditions  
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255

## permit_conditions
JSONPath: `$.permit_conditions`

- Item 1
The owner or operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only for the 
following purposes: to mitigate emergency conditions, for emission testing to 
demonstrate compliance with a District, state or Federal emission limit, or for 
reliability -related activities (maintenance and other testing, but excluding emission 
testing). Operating while mitigating emergency conditions or while emission testing 
to show compliance with District, state or Federal emis sion limits is not limited.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]  
 
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255  
 
 7 2. The owner/operator shall operate each emergency standby engine only when a non -
resettable totalizing meter (with a minimum display capability of 9, 999 hours) that 
measures the hours of operation for the engine is installed, operated and properly 
maintained . 
[Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for 
Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 3
Records: The owner/operator shall maintain the following monthly records in a 
District -approved log for at least 36 months from the date of entry (60 months if the 
facility has been issued a Title V Major Facility Review Permit or a Synthetic Minor 
Operati ng Permit). Log entries shall be retained on -site, either at a central location or 
at the engine’s location, and made immediately available to the District staff upon 
request.  
a. Hours of operation for reliability -related activities (maintenance and 
testing).  
b. Hours of operation for emission testing to show compliance with 
emission limits.  
c. Hours of operation (emergency).  
d. I For each emergency, the nature of the emergency condition. Fuel usage 
for each engine(s).  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM 
for Stationary CI Engines]

- Item 4
At School and Near -School Operation: If the emergency standby engine is located 
on school grounds or within 500 feet of any school grounds, the following 
requirements shall apply: The owner or operator shall not operate each stationary 
emergency standby di esel-fueled engine for non -emergency use, including 
maintenance and testing, during the following periods:  
a. Whenever there is a school sponsored activity (if the engine is located 
on school grounds)  
b. Between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in session.  
'School' or 'School Grounds' means any public or private school used for the 
purposes of the education of more than 12 children in kindergarten or any of grades 
1 to 12, inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is 
primarily con ducted in a private home(s). 'School' or 'School Grounds' includes any 
building or structure, playground, athletic field, or other areas of school property but 
does not include unimproved school property.  
[
Basis: Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary 
CI Engines]  
 
Permit Condition #100073 for S -1 
The owner/operator shall not exceed the following limits per year per engine for 
reliability -related activities:  
• 25 Hours of Diesel fuel (Diesel fuel)  
[Basis: Cumulative Increase, Regulation 2 -5, Title 17, California Code 
of Regulations, section 93115, ATCM for Stationary CI Engines]  
 
End of Conditions  
Facility ID: 203617   Application # 710255

## TitleV_permit
JSONPath: `$.TitleV_permit.narrative`

(empty)

## recommendation
JSONPath: `$.recommendation.text`

8 Recommendation
ion  
The District has reviewed the material contained in the permit application for the  
proposed project and has made a preliminary determination that the project is expected to 
comply with all applicable requirements of District, state, and federal air quality -related  
regulations.  The preliminary recommendation is to issue an Authority to Construct for 
the equipment listed below. However, the proposed source will be located within 1,000 
feet of a K -12 school and requires an HRA, which triggers the public notif ication
