Following up to summarize what we discussed in terms of permitting approach for the FWS as I realized I probably didn’t answer your question thoroughly. Below is additional clarification on our justification for using a 2023-2026 window instead of the standard 10-year window allowable under 40 CFR’s major mod method to calculate actual emissions.

 

For use of estimating baseline emissions using the standard 10-year window: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-40/part-51/section-51.165#p-51.165(a)(1)(xxxv)

 

(B) For an existing emissions unit (other than an electric utility steam generating unit), baseline actual emissions means the average rate, in tons per year, at which the emissions unit actually emitted the pollutant during any consecutive 24-month period selected by the owner or operator within the 10-year period immediately preceding either the date the owner or operator begins actual construction of the project, or the date a complete permit application is received by the reviewing authority for a permit required either under this section or under a plan approved by the Administrator, whichever is earlier, except that the 10-year period shall not include any period earlier than November 15, 1990.

 

The highlighted section implies the Renewable Fuels project commenced in February 2023, hence use of the 2023-2026 window instead of the standard 10-year window because Tesoro no longer operates as a petroleum refinery. Marathon has demonstrated lower emissions at the fuel gas users ever since the transition to RF, so it can be assumed the compressors aren’t operating at the same capacity they were as a petroleum refinery. Additionally, the refinery idled from 2020-2022, so the window of usable data may have been smaller anyhow.

 

The reason we’re imposing limits at the FGRS compressors is because any increase in gas rerouted from the foul water strippers TO may result in an increase in emissions of the downstream fuel gas users’ stacks or any associated combustion equipment stacks. In addition, as recovered gas processed at the vapor recovery compressors is ultimately combusted at refinery combustion equipment, an increase in recovered gas may result in using less natural gas at the mixpot upstream of the combustion equipment. Depending on the characteristics of the recovered wet gas (possible increase in NH3 and H2S) to natural gas, there may be an increase in emissions at downstream equipment. With the 500 hours of diversion, there may be an increase in actual baseline to projected actual baseline, hence why we’re using the major modification threshold of 40 CFR, Section 51.165(a)(1)(x) to demonstrate the emissions associated with the 500 hours would be an alteration to downstream fuel gas users. Projected emissions increase over actual emissions increase are calculated according to Section 51.165(a)(1)(vi) “Net Emissions Increase”.

 

Any recovered process gas that would meet the definition of emergency set forth in Regulation 12-12-201 and that would meet the planned start up and shutdown activities would be excluded from the compressor flow limits.

 

As for AN 720845, I’m wrapping up the eval and preparing to route it for management review. I’ll send the draft tank conditions shortly with a caveat that the tank conditions have not been reviewed by management nor legal and are subject to additional changes. The conditions for the unloading operation will need to be reviewed by management to confirm some questions I have.
Same thing for AN 31924 Dual Seals. I can send those draft conditions under the same pretense as AN 720845’s conditions.
I sent draft conditions for AN 725032 – Tank S-641 yesterday.
 

One question I forgot to ask: are you leaning toward pursuing the option of limits at the compressors? If so, please let me know. I need to update the application in our system to include the compressors and revise the invoice to add the HRA fees, OBC fee, and PN fees due to the TO.