Hi Troy and Sharon,

 

Below is a lengthy recap our meeting on the 3/5 Thursday per the comments received in my evaluation report from management:

 

AN 720845 – Foul Water Tanks & Tract 4 Unloading Operation:

Tesoro to confirm whether slop oil nozzles can be shut down if pegged leakers are discovered within 30/90-days. Renewable feedstock unloading arm could remain in operation since TACs triggering HRA are associated with unloading of slop oil. Enforceable permit conditions.
Please confirm 30 or 90-days for pegged leaker emissions.
 

AN 720986 – Foul Water Strippers Change in Permit Conditions (Comments received from management for first round of evaluation review):

1. Increase in TAC emissions at A-2000 TO will affect the Renewable Fuels HRA conducted under AN 30768. The Air District will need to rerun the Renewable Fuels Project HRA to ensure changes at the TO meet project risk requirements.
a. A public notice will be required since an HRA was conducted and the facility is within an overburdened community (OBC).
b. AD has HRA form and map for the TO.
2. Tesoro to demonstrate changes to fuel gas system are alterations by demonstrating diversion of foul water vapor to FGRS is not a major modification under 2-1-234.2. If changes from additional flow, during the 500-hour diversion, are not considered a major modification, then alternate flow routing to FGRS (and all downstream FGS users) are alterations. Similar limits imposed on Valero’s permitted FGRS compressors in 2019.
a. Per 2-1-234.2, Tesoro will need to use any 2-year window data from 2023-2026 (when the Renewable Fuels Project commenced) for vapor flow rates at the flare gas recovery compressors.
b. 365 rolling daily (MMscf/day) and annual (MMscf/year) flow rates will be imposed per compressor.
i. Daily limit will be established after reviewing the recovery throughput data of each compressor, set at the design capacity on the basis that each individual compressor could achieve the design capacity (2-year window between 2023-2026).
ii. (2) annual limits will be based on historical annual max achieved from the 2-year window between 2023-2026.
iii. Per 2/24/26 response to Anne Baptiste, each compressor is rated at 4.0 MMSCFD with a max of 5-6 MMSCFD per compressor (combined total of 8-12 MMSCFD).
iv. Provide historical flow rate data of both compressors from 2023-2026 (unlocked excel file preferred).
3. Provide spec sheets of both compressors, including vapor compressor #, or picture of compressor spec plates.
4. Provide general air pollution form for each compressor (treated as fugitive components under 8-18).
5. Pay updated invoice fees for each compressor + HRA fee for TO + public notice + OBC fee (provided under separate email shortly).
6. Provide an emissions estimate of criteria pollutants and TACs, occurring during the 500-hours of diversion for maintenance/emergencies/startup/shutdown/upsets, from downstream processes of the FWS.
a. Ex. it is expected that 88.1 lb/hr of unabated NH3 emissions will be sent to the FGRS during the 500 hours (0.88 lb/hr after 99.99% DRE at the TO). Need to demonstrate that there isn’t an increase in annual emissions at the fuel gas users because of the 500 hours of diversion. (unlocked excel file preferred)        
7. Provide an emissions estimate of criteria pollutants and TACs, occurring during the 8,760 – 500 hours = 8,160 hours/year of routine operation, from downstream processes of the FWS.
8. Provide P&ID showing H2S continuous monitor at outlet of last bed of A-2001 PRIOR to mixpot.
9. Confirm method to sample NH3 within fuel gas stream (location near outlet of A-2001 last bed preferred).
 