Time period: since MRF startup, daily basis
Vapor flow rates at the FGR compressors. Include both FWS offgas flow rate & indicators as well as other flow at the FGR compressors so that we can understand what % of total flow is made up of the FWS offgas.  I also think that the District wants to see flows at each of the compressors separately if that data is available. See Sheet 1. CP-539, CP-540, FWS#2, and FWS#3 vapor flows are included along with a theoretical [FWS vapor] / [total recovered gas] percent assuming all of the vapors go to FGR, and an actual ratio estimate. The actual ratio scales the total FWS OH vapor flow contribution with the relative valve %open of the flow from FWS Adsorbers to FGR (Valve B) and FWS Adsorbers to FWS TO (valve A) (i.e. [FWS OH Vapor] * ([Valve B %] / [Valve B %] + [Valve A %])). The highest actual contribution of FWS vapor in total recovered gas was 3.86%.
Quick follow-up question.  This is the % to FGR, but this is much less than the total % at the mix drum, correct?  I think it would be valuable to grab other contributors to the mix drum so that we can get a % of the total fuel gas in addition to just the % of what goes to FGR.  This is partly in relation to prior conversations with AQMD where we've stated that the FWS offgas is <<1% of the total fuel gas (and thus makes a minimal difference in the firing at the heaters), and I expect they get inadvertently confused seeing that it's a higher % of this subset of flows. I included the total fuel gas from the 5gas mixpot to the refinery (column H)
Fuel gas H2S Daily averages included. For reference, the max 365-day rolling average during this period = 2.2 ppmv. 
NOx CEMS at process heaters Daily averages included.
I'm realizing that I need to be able to get NOx and SO2 in lb/hr, not just ppm. I also need firing rate (HHV basis MMBtu/hr or MMBtu/day) to calculate other pollutants.  This might already be done in your emission inventory files but I do not have the detailed calcs for 2023-2025. Would you be able to send a new workbook with those items over the same date range? Daily avg firing rates (mmbtu/hr) included. 
Please also include any heater firing rates if they do not have CEMS. Daily avg firing rates (mmbtu/hr) included. 
If there was fuel gas used as feed to the H2 Plant can you also include that flow rate?  
For the group's benefit on where I'm headed — a clear alternate approach to focusing on the compressors is focusing on the heaters. We would do a similar analysis over a similar time period showing baseline and projected emissions at the heaters.   Also, if I can get to lb/hr NOx, I will try to see if we can estimate a % conversion of NH3 to NOx for the heaters.  We are right now relying on that TCEQ factor for conversion in flares and site-specific data would help us in our discussions.
88 lb/hr NH3 if there was 140 cfm of FWS OH flow 100% diverted to FGRS -> scaled down based on the actual cfm of FWS OH flow to FGR.
Assuming the lb/MMBtu performance at the heaters for unrelated factors would be the same during periods when FWS OH flow is routed to FGR.
The differential of total lb/hr of NH3 in and NOx out could be used to calculate the % conversion.  
SO2 CEMS (if you have any at the FWS TO or on any process heaters) Daily averages included. Note that we switched from a single range CEMS to a dual range CEMS on 7/26/2024, but column AF takes that into account.
In relation to NSPS J limits, can you find any periods since MRF startup where you are at or above 162 ppm H2S on the 3-hour average?  This can be with or without FWS offgas flow to the fuel gas system. See Sheet 2. There were 7x indicated instances since MRF SU when 3-hr rolling H2S avg > 162 ppm. 5x of those 3-hr periods occurred on 1/6/2024 when there was excessive H2S in propane after a caustic wash causing breakthrough at the adsorbers. The other 2x instances were when all the heaters were SD for 1Q26 TAR, so there were no FG users and thus not reportable. No instances related to normal operations. 
For the 1/6/24 event, did you report that as a violation of the 162 ppm, or did you call it 'process upset gas' and thus not a violation?  Yes, this 1/6/24 event was reported as a title V deviation. 
Can you help confirm what the highest 3-hr average is among non-SSM periods?  I see 133 on 4/24/24 12:00-13:00; and 3/9/25 15:00-16:00 is 101 ppm. I think the 4/24/24 instance would be the highest. @Lim, Sharon Y., can you think of any SSM events during this day?
Historical look back during refinery operations:  can you find max daily and max annual flow at the FGR compressors?  See Sheet 3. From 4/10/2003 to 10/21/2023, the highest daily avg FGR recovery flow was 9.17 MMSCFD. The highest annual avg FGR flow was 4.16 MMSCFD in 2012.
Just for comparison, it appears daily max after MRF startup = 7.5 MMSCFD on 12/15/23, and annual max = 3.81 MMSCFD in 2025.  Lower but not dramatically lower. 